2	mike nichols' what planet are you from ? is a good-spirited little comedy that takes its audience from smiles to snickers to big laughs as it pokes fun at human philosophy , emotion and sexuality . if this unique show has any roots it is as a social satire version of 1984 but set in the future . the script by garry shandling and michael leeson is full of smartly-written , bone-dry humor . ( " you appear intelligent , but when you open your mouth , the effect is spoiled , " is one of the film's typically acute observations . ) perhaps the hardest thing to believe in the movie is why anyone would cheat on her . ) " you're marrying a woman you haven't had sex with ? " " aren't you scared ? didn't you see the crying game ? " the film's on-going joke is that harold's penis hums loudly when he is sexually aroused , which is often . sounding like a cross between an electric pencil sharpener and a small hand-held fan , his organ hums loudly , which is taken as merely an eccentric oddity by his would-be conquests . with squeaky clean sets and a wry sense of humor , the film has jokes that get funnier the more you think about them . although it's not a message movie , the story has more than its share of commentary on how ridiculous we human beings can be . what planet are you from ? it is rated r for sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	cast : olivier martinez , juliette binoche , pierre arditi , carlo cecchi director : jean-paul rappeneau producer : rene cleitman screenplay : jean-paul rappeneau , nina cornpaneez , and jean-claude carriere cinematography : thierry arbogast music : jean-claude petit u . s . distributor : miramax zoe in french with english subtitles it's a grim era , and many superstitious folk think that god's judgment of the world has finally come . this is the setting for jean-paul rappeneau's the horseman on the roof , an old fashioned , historical , epic romance in the same vein as recent films like the last of the mohicans , legends of the fall , and queen margot . these movies have certain common characteristics : a love affair involving two attractive protagonists ; sweeping , beautifully- photographed backgrounds ; and a tragic , tumultuous plot . replete with heaving bosoms , thundering horses , energetic swordfights , and glorious widescreen cinematography , the horseman on the roof delivers what's expected . like any good summer film , it's fun to watch while not offering a serious intellectual challenge . ( presumably , miramax is offering the horseman as an alternative for anyone seeking something with more substance than twister or mission : impossible . ) other than a few pregnant glances , these two don't share much in the way of intimacy . they don't even kiss . a little extra heat might have made for a more powerful romance -- at times , the horseman on the roof takes restraint too far . love and emotion aside , this is a wonderful spectacle , and , with all the action and adventure , it's an undeniably enjoyable romp . even those who typically shun france's more artistic fare will be entertained by this big-budget feature . not counting the subtitles , it's the kind of thing that hollywood would be proud of . there's nothing in this film that american audiences can't relate to . although much of the horseman on the roof is more lighthearted than many sweeping melodramas , there are moments of stark , horrifying power . most deal with the effects of cholera on france's unprepared populace . it's a chillingly memorable moment . this is one of the most lavish , recent french exports , and the production values are top-notch . rappeneau ( cyrano de bergerac ) directs with a sure hand , martinez and binoche do credible ( if not spectacular ) jobs , and cameos by francois cluzet and the ubiquitous gerard depardieu add a few brief moments of " star power " . despite all of this , however , the horseman on the roof is not a transcendent experience . but , while it doesn't have the power to get eyes misty and hearts aflutter , it's still entertaining enough to make the two hours pass quickly . 
0	a vigorously played aip submarine b-film , with a no-name cast and low-budget special effects . all the enlisted men talk in an unnatural jargon , which is make-believe navy talk , that is sometimes irritating on the ol' cranium and at other times slightly amusing to the proletarian in me . this is basically a harmless ww11 war film that is watchable for insomniacs turning the tv dials late at night in search of something benign . it is one of those rare 1950s ww11 films where the japs are not even cursed out -- the men could have been fighting the greeks and no one would have known the difference . one of those 'gung ho' movies , where the only dissension comes from one of the officers who goes over-the-top in being too gung ho . i recommend this film for those who didn't like " the yellow submarine " but like any other submarine film which doesn't have a cast of rock singers . this is one of those films that has a simple plot and pads it with supposedly human interest stories , as it highlights one character from among the officers and one from the enlisted men . halsey's acting efforts nearly sabotaged the film , as his strained performance was just blah ! the film's purpose was to build tension for its action-packed climax , but by having an inferior complex because of the thinness of the story and the characters all being dullards , an effort was made instead to show how courageous the captain was and how he was , predictably , able to win the men over to his side . 
0	lies become the theme of the film , as it is examined how harmless or necessary they are for people , especially since most people live hum-drum lives and could use a little imagination to liven things up . people also lie because they feel hurt about things and think that by lying they can make themselves feel better . the spanish director , bigas luna ( jamon , jamon/golden balls/the tit and the moon ) , known to make very unconventional and sexually implicit films , has apparently toned down his act here , shooting for satire as his only proverbial fish in the barrel to shoot at . not only did i find this film a bore , the acting uninspiring , and the motif unconvincing , but what annoyed me most , was that there was scene after scene of horty telling his inane story of his dying love for marie , to an audience that pays to hear this so they can have a good cry over it . it seemed to be pushing in the audience face what the director was supposedly satirizing . the film is a parody of a need people have to hear great stories , whether they are true or not , which might be a good idea on which to anchor a film , but this one had no heart-beat to it . the melodramatic soapy romantic story , just never sailed gracefully across the ocean . the film was never able to be poetic or articulate about the point it was trying to make , instead it just settled for looking good , but couldn't rejuvenate through this feeble storytelling ploy , the art of good storytelling . there was just no passion to be found in all these handsome stars ; the idea of the film , that one can't live without imagination in one's life , was a worthy idea that never fully materialized . it has the look of one of those arty-farty films , the ones that only play in art houses and pretend to be something more arty than what they are . 
2	so what does it take to make a movie so bad that it's good ? how far over the top does a picture have to go to become hilariously horrible ? what does a b movie have to do to make sure that audiences realize that the filmmaker is winking at them from behind the camera ? meng-hwa ho's unabashedly hokey mighty peking man knows all of these answers . the 1977 film is about to be re-released by quentin tarantino's rolling thunder pictures in " hopes of jump-starting the recently dormant but still vital midnight movie tradition . " not only is it a perfect midnight movie , it's also one of the few foreign films that work well dubbed . dubbing usually makes actors look silly , but here it just makes already outlandish performances seem even more so . among the picture's delights are its crude special effects . the man in the ape suit gets to crush small villages that are made of such simple materials that you can create the same effects in the comfort of your own home . the joys of the movie , however , come more from the actors than the gorilla . does this make any sense and does it have anything to do with the story ? no and no , but it's stupidly funny . no sense wasting valuable medicine , he reasons . dressed in cheesy , skimpy animal skins , she looks terrific . her bikini outfit has only one shoulder strap , which makes her running scenes sensually humorous since her top is unable to fully serve its intended purpose . and did i mention the python that bites samantha's thigh just south of her private parts ? but it is the ape's ingenuity that saves her . this long sequence is choreographed to the dramatic ending of shostakovich's fifth symphony , a piece of classical music as over-the-top as the story itself . as the french horns blare , the cymbals crash and the violins make loud discordant sounds , the ape fights his last battle . you should count yourself lucky if your life ends with such a climactic flourish . mighty peking man runs a bit long , even at just 1 : 30 . it was rated pg when released in 1977 before the introduction of the pg-13 rating , which it would undoubtedly get today . the film contains sexuality , brief nudity and comic violence and would be fine for kids 11 or 12 and up . 
2	so what if the great danish director , carl theodor dreyer's screenplay , written with preben thomsen in the mid-60s , is not adhered to , so be it ! right ! i'm talking about him saying that he communed with the spirits of dreyer and those spirits approved of what he is doing to change the film . i just can't get caught up in that nonsense , for me , it's what i see on screen that counts . it does not matter how others filmed it or would have filmed it , whether it is pasolini's most interesting 1969 version of it , starring maria callas or von trier's take on it , that is the better one . and even though both pasolini and von trier are gifted filmmakers , with pasolini , in my opinion , being the more poetical and imaginative of the two , nevertheless , dreyer is still the master , and i would have expected more from him than i do from the others , though i am pleased to say , i am sated by both these differing versions of medea , but in differing ways . vision and intensity are certainly important elements in a film , and that is what is the driving force behind this film , based on euripides' tragedy , that was made for danish tv . this tale of medea is still a living myth , one that every generation should come to its own terms with , and that is precisely what trier has attempted to do . knowing the story doesn't necessarily preclude that we can feel the story . whatever opinion you might have about von trier's telling of the myth , you can agree that his version of it , is definetly a deeply felt emotional experience , one that went to the heart of the matter in terms of feeling the agony of what a woman who has lost touch with herself because of her pride , is going through . by emphasizing her feelings as being only for herself , her irrationality is made rational , even if it isn't rational . through her fall from grace , we see the tragedy unfold , and the deadly consequences of her jealousy and sense of being wronged come around to its bitter fruition . the dialogue is sparse . the open air scenery is intense , it appeared to me as if i was looking at van gogh's wheatfields , with the wind swirling forcefully in and out of the fields . and this tale is all the more a tragedy . . . the only difference is that from dreyer's style of simplicity in filmmaking , we can feel the pains ourself , we didn't need it enlarged and magnified by wasted and unnecessary movements . that he succeeds in this film , is certainly evident . he succeeds because he has found the right medea for the part , and has caught enough of the mood without ruining it as he almost does , by going overboard with his excesses . i am mainly referring to the hanging scenes of the children . he came very close to turning me off , as i was beginning to suspect that these scenes didn't have to be that explicit in all its morbid details , the idea of having the older child go back for the younger one , seemed to me , to be exploitive and incredulous , as well as unnecessary . all we had to see was the pained expression on medea and the children and we could have drawn our own visions , even more powerful ones than the ones we materially witnessed . the reason dreyer is a master and one of the greatest directors ever , is because he did not compromise his integrity or the film's integrity going after anything that was superfluous to the telling of the story . i always get the feeling when i am seeing a dreyer film , i am seeing something that is truly visionary . yet when i see a von trier film , i can't say the same , even though he is a very talented director , i just can't trust his judgment when it comes to telling the story without it seeming to be pretentious . i am never sure if he really got it or if he is putting me on . 
2	it's often said that if you're going to borrow , borrow from the best . and , in motion pictures , one of the best is certainly akira kurosawa . and now , the premise of 1950's rashomon has been re-worked by director edward zwick and screenwriter patrick sheane duncan for courage under fire , a powerful and intelligent examination of the consequences of guilt and responsibility , and the meaning of absolute truth . courage under fire shows us another face of war's horrors , although this particular perspective is less bleak than that of a platoon or an apocalypse now . those movies were brutally effective because they reveled in bleakness , cynicism , and carnage ; courage under fire gains its power by affirming that the cost of war isn't the inevitable eradication of every trace of human dignity and heroism . battle meant the potential for death , and that potential unleashed the best and worst of human nature . that's the bottom line . . . " kurosawa's rashomon depicted a murder from several different viewpoints . which karen walden is the real one : ilario's , monfriez's , or someone else's ? or is the truth unknowable ? the audience is in synch with the film ; the script is neither one step ahead of us nor one step behind . courage under fire ends with a moment of catharsis , but there are no overblown speeches -- only a simple , quiet scene that touches the heart more profoundly than anything accomplished by melodramatic manipulation . is it overly-sentimental ? perhaps . is it effective ? definitely . denzel washington , whom zwick directed to an oscar in glory , is in top form here , essaying a tormented man with a noble heart who's caught in a vortex of political and emotional turmoil . meg ryan , aiming to break away from her reputation as a romantic comedy leading lady , uses this opportunity to attempt more demanding , dramatic acting . because her character is seen only through the flashbacks of others , she must essentially play multiple roles -- a task which she carries out admirably . in glory , zwick effectively married a powerful human interest story with well-choreographed battle sequences . here , he once again accomplishes this , although the combat takes place in a far more technologically advanced arena . but the campaigns of courage under fire that leave the deepest impression aren't those involving ground troops and air cover . rather , they're the deeper , more personal struggles of nat serling as he sifts through the war-ravaged elements of the human spirit for that " one little piece of shining something for people to believe in . " courage under fire is as profound and intelligent as it is moving , and that makes this memorable motion picture one of 1996's best . 
1	in my review of john sayles' 1996 film lone star , i wrote that my initial frustration with the film must have meant that i missed something . such was my confidence in sayles' storytelling that i was convinced i could find the unifying thematic thread if i just pondered long enough . in that particular case , i was right . sayles' new film limbo presented me with the same initial frustration , and the same determination to find the one piece that would turn the merely intriguing into the truly brilliant . and it just wasn't there . for the first hour , there are plenty of reasons to believe limbo could be the latest thematically rich cinematic sayles novel . here , alaska has at least two faces : the raw , blank-slate wilderness that provides escape and opportunity for new beginnings , and the tourist attraction that provides a sanitized version of that wilderness . sayles offers plenty of local color with his supporting characters , but it's the way those characters interact with the place that gives limbo weight . for half the film , limbo sets a tentative romance against a backdrop of civilization trying to claim one of the few remaining frontiers , even as residents who should know better keep searching for a predictability that just isn't there . i suppose you could see the second half as sayles' attempt to show just how far civilization has to go , if you were feeling particularly generous . even worse , the links to the first half's portrait of alaska at a cultural crossroads become tenuous at best . the second half is solid enough , but it's a jarring shift . instead of a novel , sayles has written two short stories slammed together in an uncomfortable fit . john sayles' films are always comparative pleasures in the bigger picture of filmmaking , with their smart dialogue and attention to human detail . sayles has also become a more visually interesting director with every film , turning in at least one hypnotically beautiful sequence of joe returning to fishing ( another triumph for cinematographer haskell wexler ) . he can say fascinating things both with his dialogue and his camera . in limbo , all those fascinating things just don't add up to a fascinating , unified story . limbo isn't a disappointment because he doesn't say enough , as in the ambiguous final shot . it's a disappointment because he tries to say too much . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	written and directed with style by richard shepard ( the linguini incident ) , " oxygen " is a compelling psychodrama , whose story is sickening but is superbly played by an excellent cast . adrien brody got the most he could get out of the character and gives a riveting performance of someone who has gone over the edge . maura tierney also turns in a spectacular performance , portraying a very troubled but courageous woman . it was clearer to find out what was troubling harry than it was to get to the bottom of her problem , but her characterization of a pained woman was almost as interesting as his . the victim's impatient husband pulls strings and gets thev f . b . i . no police procedure would ever take that chance , and the film hinges all its marbles on that being accepted for its tricky ending to work . but for sheer excitement , the fast-paced film moves rapidly along to see if the police can get to the buried frances in time , and in the meantime , brody gives the performance of his career so far . " oxygen " had some fresh air in its tank which it leaked out at times to refreshen some of its derivative scenes , especially the opening subway scene , where the lead police couple come across a wanted felon and give chase , in a scene that looked like it came right out of " the french connection . " 
2	it's tough to find a fresh angle when you're making a movie about 20-somethings and their relationships in 1996 , since the last five years have seen such a glut of such films that you couldn't throw a rock without hitting one . young film-makers may be attempting to follow the creative writing 101 dictum of " write what you know , " but in so doing they are writing what we all have seen enough of by now to know even better than they do . swingers appears at first glance to be more of the same , but it's not really a relationship film . instead , screenwriter jon favreau has created what amounts to a comedy with a national geographic twist , a charming , almost documentary account of the habits of the north american human male in the wild . director doug liman seems to be working hard to create a sense of place ; in fact , he sometimes seems to be working a bit too hard . the authenticity liman is going for with those locations is an authenticity specific to the time and place where swingers is set , and that is fine , but it is much more winning in its authentic portrayal of the way men act when they are out in groups and on the prowl . the dynamics of a group of male friends is presented with a hilariously spot-on realism , with trent as alpha male directing the behavior of guys who are little like him , and in fact may not not _like_ him . that is another aspect of male friendships which is rarely represented on screen but which is nailed in favreau's script : men often find themselves hanging out with guys with whom they share virtually nothing in common . swingers gets its' characters relationships so right that it is almost frightening . it is rather disappointing that so much time is spent on mike mooning over his ex , given the stronger kick of the male-bonding scenes . the sad fact is that , like in real life , spending a lot of time with someone who does little but whine about his lost love gets to be a bit of a drag . mike's extremely tentative steps toward getting back on the horse are the frame on which the events in swingers hang , which makes it kind of a necessary evil . the comedy is much richer when favreau , liman and the cast of swingers take you on safari , observing a mating dance that is both strange and wonderfully familiar . 
1	what do you get if you use tim burton , the inspired and irreverent director of batman and ed wood , to combine an invasion force of bug- eyed , big-brained martians , a star-studded cast featuring some of the biggest names in hollywood , and a huge special effects budget ? sadly , one of 1996's most disappointing motion pictures . mars attacks ! , burton's half-satire/half-homage to '50s b-movies , is a stillborn affair that could have been -- and should have been -- a whole lot hipper and funnier . if you've seen the two-minute theatrical trailer , you've seen nearly everything that's worthwhile in the feature . with such a mammoth cast , it's not surprising that only a few actors get more than token attention . even glenn close , who is billed second , has a total of ten minutes of screen time and only a handful of lines ( memorizing dialogue must have been exceptionally undemanding ) . there's absolutely nothing in any of these characters for an audience to latch on to . there are a few nicely-executed comic performances . natalie portman gives us a bored first daughter who has perhaps the best line ( taken in context ) in the entire movie ( " i guess it wasn't the bird " ) . rod steiger effectively emulates george c . scott's war-mongering general turgidson from dr . strangelove . pierce brosnan and sarah jessica parker make for a fun-but-brainless ( or maybe that should be " body-less " ) pair . and jim brown does a fine job playing off of his blaxploitation image by punching out aliens left and right . contains a number of genuinely funny moments that occur both through the dialogue and as a result of the visual approach ( there's a godzilla cameo , the " bowling over " of stonehenge , and a sequence where the martians toy with the washington monument before toppling it ) . unfortunately , too many attempts at comedy don't succeed , creating long stretches between laughs . another problem is that , on more than one occasion , when burton finds a gag that works , he overuses it . strangelove-type satire , the focus is on less-vicious , more obvious forms of mocking . in addition to its other faults , mars attacks ! is not well-edited . in fact , there are portions that border on incoherent . the movie lurches disjointedly from scene-to-scene as the tone careens from turgid to fast-paced . plot doesn't really matter , which is a good thing . many of the special effects ( especially those involving flying saucers and mass destruction ) have an intentionally cheesy edge , and danny elfman's score contains throwback elements . the overall problem is that the idea of mars attacks ! works a lot better on paper than in practice . although the two films were developed separately and during the same time frame , the temptation exists to say that this film is satirizing the earlier blockbuster . while that's not the case , mars attacks ! does lampoon the genre that spawned id4 . i was anticipating a lot from mars attacks ! , but what i got was a shell of my expectations . there are too many characters , too little story , and too much unfunny and repetitious material . the first half is painfully slow , forcing us to suffer through the needlessly laborious exercise of meeting and learning something about each of the characters . despite burton's effort and ingenuity , there's never an effective comic or sci-fi payoff . gives us tantalizing glimpses of brilliance , but those moments only illustrate how flawed and unsatisfactory the rest of the film is . 
2	there have been any number of vietnam tales--oliver stone has made a career out of that time and place--but none with quite the perspective of the hughes brothers' . sometimes , however , good intentions and a valiant effort aren't enough . in detailing one man's actions and their consequences , dead presidents isn't just an african american tragedy -- its impact is universal . although dead presidents isn't as intense or wrenching as the hughes brothers' debut feature , menace ii society , the scope is different . dead presidents is also somewhat different from most of the vast number of cinematic vietnam experiences because its focus is on how the overseas trauma contributes to the reconstruction of a man's character . dead presidents isn't awash in originality , but its black perspective hasn't yet been overdone , and the hughes brothers' add their unique imprint to the narrative . his role here requires greater range ( although less intensity ) , and he carries it off with aplomb . tucker's work is noteworthy , as he manages to provide a fair amount of comic relief without compromising the viability of his character . even though dead presidents is more about the effects of poverty than those of racism , only the most naive viewer could completely dissociate the two . nevertheless , the hughes brothers don't overtly introduce race as an issue . instead , this is about the failure of society , and how desperation , more than greed , can lead to radical and violent acts . the film is not perfect--certain sequences are awkward or drawn from stock , and many of the supporting characters are stereotypes--but solid storytelling and tight pacing push dead presidents through its weak spots . the result not only reaffirms the hughes brothers' ability as film makers , but shows they can go beyond the limits of the urban street drama they presented so forcefully in menace ii society . 
1	do you remember back in grade school when one of the kids on the playground would say some mildly off-color phrase , and you and your buddies would erupt into nervous giggles ? one in which the insults know no bounds . mothers are universally referred to with the b-word , and teachers are cussed out to the delight of the entire class . there are undoubtedly people who find this brand of humor extremely funny rather than merely crude . my audience was a mixture of laughers and starers . the story concerns four boys who see an r-rated animated movie , asses of fire . after watching the movie , one kid joins the klan , but most just switch to a new profanity-laced dialect of the english language . " the animation is all crappy , " one of the boys complains in a bit of self-deprecating humor . the pictures have such little life that they are effectively a series of slightly moving tableaux . some bits of humor start off well enough before they go off the deep end . but the kid doesn't obtain admission . punching the entry button to the pearly gates produces an " access denied " error message . some of the political humor is quite funny , the best being a v-chip that is implanted into one kid's skull . every bad word produces a painful jolt . and what do you say when you experience sudden pain ? you cuss , of course , which only prolongs the agony . speaking of prolonging things , the movie would have worked much better as a short film . a quarter of an hour would have been plenty of time with these tart-tongued tiny tots . it is rated r for pervasive vulgar language and crude sexual humor and for some violent images . it would be fine for teenagers . do not make the mistake of taking kids under 13 . a woman in my audience did , and you could see her grimacing . 
2	cast : john travolta , nicolas cage , joan allen , gina gershon , alessandro nivola , dominique swain , nick cassavetes , harve presnell , colm feore , margaret cho director : john woo producers : david permut , barrie m . osborne , terence chang , and christopher godsick screenplay : mike werb & michael colleary cinematography : oliver wood music : john powell u . s . distributor : paramount pictures face/off , the third english-language feature from acclaimed hong kong director john woo , isn't the best movie of the summer , but it certainly features some of the best action . woo , who is known and appreciated for his unique stylistic approach to violence and bloodshed , creates a kinetic ballet of bullets and explosions that drives the adrenaline level through the roof . there are problems with this film , some of which are quite obvious , but the end result is much like woo's 1996 effort , broken arrow -- as long as you don't think too much , the action maelstrom will suck you into its vortex and keep you spinning for roughly two hours . to woo's credit , he doesn't stick strictly to action . face/off is only in overdrive for about two-thirds of its running length . the rest of the movie is devoted to such mundane tasks and plot exposition , character and relationship development , and ruminations on philosophical issues like identity . while there's very little of the latter ( certainly not enough to turn off viewers who don't like their action leavened with anything intellectual ) , there is enough to give face/off an interesting subtext . how much of who we are is determined by our physical appearance ? and , if we're given the face of another , how like that person are we likely to become ? these issues aren't explored too deeply , but , to woo's credit ( and to that of the screenplay , by mike werb & michael colleary ) , they are addressed . such weighty questions are posed because the two main characters swap faces and identities . the biggest hurdle to overcome while watching face/off is suspending disbelief . after all , the scenario that enables troy and archer to swap identities is preposterous . no matter how desperately woo tries to make the procedure seem logically and medically feasible , it's all a little too much to swallow . in fact , a better strategy might have been to be as vague as possible about the details ( such an approach was used effectively in 1992's prelude to a kiss ) . rather than enhancing credibility , specifics damage it . regardless , appreciating the movie as anything more than a series of flashes and bangs demands that the viewer accept , if not believe , that troy and archer can exchange features without showing any lingering signs of surgery or physical trauma . there's almost too much action in face/off . after a while , no matter how much flair woo invests in the project , the intensity starts to wear off and things become repetitive . at one-hundred forty minutes , the movie is probably about a half-hour too long . that said , however , there's a great deal of difference between the kind of action served up in face/off and what's offered by dozens of inferior features . the opening sequence is a perfect example . woo cranks things up to a fevered pitch , choreographing everything for maximum visceral impact . instead of just a bunch of people shooting at each other , we get a series of memorable images superimposed upon one other : nicolas cage emerging from a car with an unbuttoned coat billowing in the wind like a bat's wings , handel's messiah used to score the planting of the bomb , and a game of chicken made all the more nerve-wracking because of the manner in which it is edited . face/off has a helluva first reel . then , later in the film , there's an unforgettable sequence that juxtaposes a bloodbath with judy garland's rendition of " somewhere over the rainbow . " both john travolta and nicolas cage seem to be having a lot of fun . cage , who's in the midst of an action run that started with last year's the rock and continued in the recently- released con air , enjoys the opportunity to really let go , although he never completely discards subtlety in favor of passion and energy . and , since both actors have to play two wildly-different characters , there's more acting skill demanded for face/off than one might initially suppose . face/off is primarily for hard-core action junkies and those who appreciate woo's inimitable style . like the director's other two western films ( hard target and broken arrow ) , this is a flawed and occasionally ridiculous piece of work , but there's enough here to hold just about anyone's interest , and it's almost always great fun . the movie is brash , loud , and far from the intellectual cutting-edge , but , on those occasions when face/off gets everything right , it's capable of moments of rare cinematic perfection . that alone makes it worth the price of admission . 
1	providing all of the elements of a mystery is not the same thing as actually crafting one . and taking a famous book and bringing it to the screen does not guarantee that the film will be successful . i have not read the book but am told that , although complex , it is not as obtuse as ann biderman's screenplay for the movie . this film is as cold as the landscape and rarely engages the audience . so slow moving , you begin to wonder if the snow's effect on the actors is to blame . as preposterous and ponderous as the story can be , it has great atmosphere and one excellent performance . i have always thought of julia ormond , who was delightful in sabrina , as being an actress with a limited repertoire . her starring role as smilla jaspersen demonstrates she has a much wider acting range than i had imagined . ormond's smilla is a tough and cynical loner . the lack of any credible chemistry between them makes an already unbelievable show even more so . like last year's shadow conspiracy , the story will begin to hint at some massive conspiracy and cover-up . providing easily the worst acting in the picture , richard harris oozes in with a cliche-ridden performance as tork hviid , the head of the infamous greenland mining . vanessa redgrave has a nice bit part as elsa lubing . other than ormond's performance and joergen persson's magnificent cinematography of greenland , the only reason to see the show is the mystery so i will reveal little . suffice it to say that it involves prehistoric worms . on a small note , after our family spent a wonderful time in copenhagen last summer , i was disappointed to see such a gorgeous and colorful city made so gray and depressing . although i understand the film wanted to do this to contrast it with the beauty and freshness of greenland , i found it sad nevertheless . perhaps a better film would have made me more forgiving . smilla's sense of snow runs too long at 2 : 00 . it is rated r for language , some violence and a sex scene . it is a mild r and the film would be fine for any teenager . although there are parts to admire , there is not enough for me to be able to recommend it . i give this cold tale * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	james merendino's slc punk ! has something deep and insightful to say about the nature of youthful rebellion . sort of . maybe . i think . it's sort of hard to tell through all the bombast of merendino's hyperactive period piece , which tries to be a sort of nostalgic breakfast club for the dead kennedys set but misses the point entirely . it's one thing to make a film about teens grousing over the sell-outs of adulthood and the trials of coping with societal expectations , and target it at the teens themselves ; it's quite another to make such a film and target it at those who've already been through that melodramatic wringer . the simple enjoyment that might have come from the time and the tunes instead turns into a 90 minute wait for the characters to get a clue . our tour guide through slc punk ! like many an independent comedy , slc punk ! has enough frantic energy to guarantee at least a few belly laughs -- notably during stevo's spin through a party describing the various sub-plots in action , and a scene showing our protagonists as pre-punk , " dungeons and dragons " -obsessed middle-schoolers . also like many an independent comedy , it often has nothing _but_ frantic energy . for every decent gag or clever insight , you can count on at least two or three self-indulgent uses of direct address to the camera in which stevo rails about religious oppression or the plague of poseurs ( i . e . , those who son the garb without walking the walk ) . scenes which i'm assuming should come off as either amusing or wise-beyond-his-years instead come off as merely damp ; if spittle were diamonds , matthew lillard's performance would surely be a piece of comic jewelry fit for a princess . once again , a film-maker's attempt to connect with the audience through narration becomes a lazy failure . slc punk ! tries to score its major profundity points when stevo is hit by the bombshell that rebellious youth are just conformists of a different kind . well , you can file that one under " d " for " duh ; " stevo's revelation is one with which any audience member over the age of 25 will already be quite familiar . it's that kind of pseudo-wisdom that makes slc punk ! far more tiresome than a film built around devotion to the ramones should have been . when tragedy strikes one of the film's significant characters late in the film , and merendino tries to play it as a genuine tragedy , you realize he hasn't remotely earned an emotional response . slc punk ! blasts through its set pieces with little film-making prowess , then expects to tie it all together by having stevo blubber away at misspent youth . poseurs , indeed . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	a movie about divorce and custody in 1995 seems about as timely as a movie about mood rings . family breakups have been an all too familiar part of the american landscape for nearly thirty years , and countless dramas have told stories of acrimonious court battles in hand-wringing detail . still , i can't recall a comedy about the subject before bye bye love . and after it , i still can't . bye bye love is rarely funny , more often a weak and melodramatic retread of common tv-movie fare . only a few moments which have nothing to do with the film's main premise offer big laughs instead of cliched emotion . the three lead actors form a rather unlikely combo , and the quality of their performances is of widely varying quality . randy quaid is the best of the three , bitter without being irritating , gleefully spiteful without being frightening . he does get bye bye love's best sub-plot , a hilarious dinner date with a gloriously demented janeane garofolo , and he does a great slow burn . paul reiser really has only one character , his slightly befuddled , uptight nice guy " mad about you " persona , but he does it well . as a personality , he is appealing , but as a character , he becomes pretty boring here . matthew modine , is , quite simply , terrible . this isn't a performance good enough to be called mailed-in ; he even forgot to put a stamp on it . modine lacks any charm in an appallingly under-written role , looks bored most of the time , and gets stuck with a trite little speech about how it's all his father's fault he's such a cad . bye bye love basically comes off as a very confused movie , because it spends far too much of its time on the new relationships of its main characters instead of on the relationships between the fathers and their kids , making it just another " dating in the 90s " movie . when the movie does deal with the children at all , it is to have one of them scream out an accusation and/or cry , perhaps to be resolved later by a sensitive talk and a hug , perhaps not . it is a sad end to flanders' career , getting caught up in a truly annoying over-use of mcdonald's as a location , a plot device and , apparently , a major advertiser . even if bye bye love had decided to spend its time focusing exclusively on the parent-child relationships , it still would have been pretty difficult to pull off , because ultimately there is very little humor one can wring from family break-ups and their effects on children . any way you slice it , it is a bad situation for kids , and the makers of bye bye love mostly go for the heartstrings when dealing with the single parenting issue . it is left to the dads' romantic fumblings to probide what little humor there is , and it isn't enough . there have been comparisons between bye bye love and parenthood , but parenthood was both genuinely funny and genuinely touching . bye bye love is a genuine shame . 
0	a poor imitation of lubitsch's classic romance/comedy trouble in paradise . even though it is terribly outdated for modern audiences , it was seen as the height of fashion at its time as for style and dress . it was a witty depression eye-pleaser for american audiences who liked to watch the rich in action , especially seeing them get robbed of their jewels . 
0	there are no surprises in this oater , but it's watchable fare . it is surprising how soothing these lightweight films can be and how nostalgic they are for those of us who sometimes have a yen to recall the 1950s , thinking fondly back when films such as this one were regularly part of a double-feature . there are villains galore here . my favorite portrayal of one is by jeff corey . as brett now sides openly with lane . these scenes are action-packed . there's nothing special about this oater , nor is there anything terrible about it . but , by golly , you get to see the cavalry come riding in to save the day , and to me , that's when you know for darn sure that you are watching a genuine western . 
2	fast-paced action and witty one-liners , allow this hitchcock-like story to be both amusing and thrilling . and the surprise ending is a beaut , which should catch you off-guard , as you will most likely be misled and unable to guess who the murderer is . jolly good fun . a real delightful and snappy film , featuring mystery , humor , snappy dialogue , and a great surprise ending . 
2	with the great cast of edmund gwenn , maureen o'hara , gene lockhart and natalie wood , the film is both imaginative and witty . its approach is simple -- put st . nick on trial . gwenn's academy award winning performance should delight everyone , young and old . kris turns out to be a bit of a radical . it doesn't make any difference if macy's or someone else sells the toy . " gwenn is a sweet actor who was perfectly cast for the role . he looks more like a benevolent old man than the santa claus he claims to be , which makes his claims both dubious and interesting at the same time . you're just a nice old man with whiskers . " one of the themes in the show has to do with insanity . a hearing to get him released forms the dramatic core of the picture . i am a big fan of movie trials . this one is trickier than most . the acting is superb all around . the script is lovely , good spirited and perfect viewing for the christmas season . a show that teaches good morals , but is never pedantic . the ending could not be a better . the music by cyril j . mockridge alternates between the sugary sweet and the dramatically melancholy . maybe a little sappy , but i loved it . yes , this classic black and white movie was remade in 1994 in color . amazingly george seaton even did the script for both . although i liked the remake , the original is much better . this 1947 classic , sentimental christmas movie is worth seeing again and again . perhaps its best message is that of the mother's , " if things don't turn out just the way you want the first time , you still have to believe . " it is not rated , but would certainly get a g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or profanity . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , says , " i liked it a lot ! " i strongly recommend this marvelous film to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	so what kind of a man was harry lime ? director carol reed's classic the third man has just been restored and is in the process of being re-released theatrically . now , with the restoration of the 11 minutes of footage trimmed from the american release by producer david o . selznick , we can see the film as continental audiences first saw it . not having seen the movie in what seems like a zillion years , but which must be less than 50 since the film originally came out in 1949 , i was able to look at it again with few preconceived notions . set in a post-world-war-ii vienna , the picture does a masterful job of recreating an era of complex politics and a city picking itself up from the ashes . in the story by graham greene and alexander korda , the ambiguous characters perfectly match robert krasker's heavily shadowed black-and-white cinematography . the characters' exact intentions and motivations are up for discussion . seeing the movie again after all these years , i was struck by several things . although harry lime is the central character , wells has a remarkably small part . his first appearance in the movie has a power and a charm that makes it one of the most endearing scenes in cinematic history . with its dominant austrian zither music , the film serves notice that it doesn't intend to fit neatly into any genre . the music is whimsical , mysterious and sometimes even a little sad . every time you start to ponder a situation seriously , the music comes up to suggest that things may not be quite what they seem . and it warns us not to take things too seriously . the writers seem to be just off camera , laughing with little in-jokes that they alone understand . the scene in the ferris wheel , in which harry draws a heart on the glass , is one such moment . how is it to be taken ? the writers seem to enjoy toying with us . the overwhelming emotion on seeing it again is to realize how the picture works best on a visual and a musical level . one could imagine doing away with all of the dialog and relying on the pictures and the music alone . actually , the only truly memorable line is harry's reflection to holly . space operas aside , one wonders which films of today will still be popular 50 years from now . this simple question is harder than it might appear since it involves not only artistic merit but also changing opinions . while waiting for the mid-twenty-first century's official classics list , go enjoy some of the sure winners now , like the third man , especially if you're lucky enough to have it playing theatrically in your area . it is rated pg for mature themes and would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested , which probably means around 12 and up . 
1	screenplay : greg berlanti . director : greg berlanti . the helpful sub-title tagged on to the broken hearts club is not the only time you'll be instructed exactly what you're supposed to understand about the film . it's more than a movie , it's an anthropology class . welcome to " intro to gay 101 . " the broken hearts club clearly has its broken heart in the right place , but it's too concerned with making statements about its milieu to let the narrative work organically as a character study . and there are lots of characters to study in this ensemble dramedy . that's a whole heap of humanity to which berlanti must be attentive , and he's not quite up to the task . most of his characters remain types throughout , particularly the more effeminate benji and taylor . the rest of the actors just don't have enough to work with . in 94 minutes , the broken hearts club just can't support a half-dozen major characters . it's a shame , too , because berlanti actually has an intriguing concept at the core of his film . unlike most gay-themed films , this one isn't about coming out , or dealing with the straight world , or aids . it's a fairly risky statement about the complications when members of a minority group become so insular that their entire frame of reference becomes their other-ness . this is a film that's ready to acknowledge that sometimes gay men -- even after they've said , " we're here , we're queer " -- haven't quite gotten used to it . an idea , unfortunately , isn't enough to sustain a film . there is plenty of tart dialogue , and not all of it is of the bitchy-queen variety . the individual moments of humor and discovery are nice , but they don't add up to enough . the broken hearts club is a movie determined to teach you something , rather than a movie about people whose experiences teach you something . a lecture with romance and comedy is still a lecture . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	documentaries work best when they challenge your assumptions and make you think . dutch director johan van der keuken's i ( heart ) $ is a provocative film with an obviously anti-capitalist agenda . the film is mesmerizing because it keeps you on your toes . sandwiched between reasonable arguments are a host of illogical ones and " facts , " which are clearly anything but . made in 1986 and rarely shown in this country , the story is structured as a series of interviews with people , rich and poor . this first segment implants in our subconscious that people make money mainly to manipulate those less fortunate . although it isn't clear , since the film doesn't contain any chapter headings , the next sequence is set in new york city . at first , as we drive by buildings in ruins , we think we are passing through a war zone . this continues the theme of the rich exploiting the poor , and this time it suggests that they do it illegally without ever being caught . the third sequence has an american banker explaining his economic theories . the only benefit of having money that he can think of is to use it to make more money . moreover factory utilization is at an all time low , and people are investing in sexy new technologies rather than basic ones like steel . the banker argues persuasively and is unchallenged by the sympathetic interviewer , but on closer examination , you realize what absolute balderdash it all is , contrast , for example , the stagnation of the 1970s with the boom of the 1980s and 1990s . rather than complaining that the question contains a false assumption , the executive tries to answer it as politely as he can . the exasperating editing and cinematography are the movie's weakest links . long sequences of little value go on long past the time when their points have been made . the camera is sometimes pointed at the strangest places . during one interview we have a long sequences in which all we see is a curtain . we also get lots of close-ups of flowerbeds -- purpose unknown . this visual has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the story . adroitly and seductively presented , the film is fascinating , albeit perhaps not for the reasons the filmmaker intended . i ( heart ) $ runs too long at 2 : 25 . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for brief , partial nudity and would be fine for kids old enough to be interested , which probably means teenagers . 
1	keenen ivory wayans's scary movie is a sweet little farce in the spirit of the old airplane movies . every sentence has a different joke with each being sillier than the last . although called scary movie , the film spoofs everything from horror movies ( i know what you did last summer ) to teen sex comedies ( american pie ) to action flicks ( the matrix ) . and if the humor eventually starts getting a little repetitive and tiresome , you can't fault the large writing committee of phil beauman , jason friedberg , buddy johnson , aaron seltzer , marlon wayans and shawn wayans for not trying hard , as they throw everything they can think of at us in the hopes that we'll find something to laugh at . without a pretentious bone in its body , the movie is 100% spoof . one of its favorite subjects of ridicule is the movie itself . we then cut to the film's director , camera operator and script supervisor . in the opening episode , a blonde bimbo is being chased by the story's villain , a masked guy with a hook -- quick , name that movie . the mask , cleverly , has different expressions , depending on the killer's mood . subtlety is not the movie's strong suit . imagine the shame of that poor animal in the picture with lipstick on his face . the story's most enjoyable sequence comes in the retribution that a movie audience inflicts on a talkative viewer . the audience eventually has enough of the inconsiderate woman and engages in a slash-a-thon . maybe in the future theaters could run this sequence when it is time for their " silence is golden " message . there is nothing worse than asking people to be quiet only to have them look at you like you are an idiot for asking and then go on talking anyway . scary movie runs 1 : 28 . it is rated r for strong , crude sexual humor , language , drug use and violence and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
2	watching a hard day's night from 1964 , now in re-release in the theaters with a newly restored print and sound , is rather like watching an old newsreel . were we really like that ? of course , the answers are : we were , and it did . but gosh , it now seems more like a million years ago rather than just a little over a third of a century . the movie , done in a mock day-in-the-life documentary style , shows pre-teen and teenage girls swooning and screaming with such intensity that they make themselves sick . in real-life many such fans passed out and had to be carried out on stretchers . the movie , while minimizing the beatle hype , concentrates on the sheer joy of their music . whenever they are singing in the movie , which is often , the picture soars . the producers had the now radical idea of actually including entire songs , not just choppy excerpts , in the film . too bad that this technique has long since vanished . less successful than the musical numbers are the silly little non-musical episodes including ones of the boys hamming it up together . even though these four working-class blokes charm us with their natural playfulness , the reason to see a hard day's night is as the best music video ever . don't even try to keep a smile off of your face and a song out of your heart while watching the film . it's just not possible . the film is in a handsome black and white , which enhances its documentary feel . it is rated g and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , who is 'n sync kind of guy , thought the movie was pretty good , giving it * * 1/2 . he liked the songs the best and thought the other parts of the movie were dumb but sometimes funny . 
2	art biopics are rarely successful ventures but this film approaches those high caliber art films , such as jacques rivette's la belle noiseuse and paul cox's vincent : the life and death of vincent van gogh , but falls short by a good country mile due to the film's inability to get a handle on how to tell about the taciturn artist's inner demons in a significant way rather than in the traditional bleak and trite way hollywood films usually illustrate an artist's failings . the strength of the film is in the tour de force performances of both ed harris as the action painter pollock , a role that he is well-suited to play , and marcia gay harden's understated but brilliant performance as his brooklyn-born wife and main supporter , lee krasner . she won the oscar for best supporting actress , in a lengthy role where she was actually the co-star . but this is ed harris's film , a film he wanted to do as long as 15 years ago after reading a book about pollock and noticing from a photo how closely he resembled him and how he had a certain vibe for him . he not only directs and stars in the film , but he financed it . these scenes were brilliantly executed by harris and made the film a labor of love for him . harris was absolutely convincing playing the artist , he looked as if he was a real artist at work . pollock is not an overwhelming film , as much as it is a superbly well acted one . it shows how pollock found freedom only when he painted , as his outside life was that of a flawed man , a very difficult man to get along with , who didn't have much to say about art or life that was particularly interesting . harris as a director , had a love affair with the artist that was much too respectful to get beyond what we already know about him . he was someone who lived out the artist fantasy trip by achieving more in style than in substance , even though the film wants us to believe he was truly a great artist . 
1	eighty minutes . that's how long it takes before captain corelli's mandolin ever comes alive . still , that is ten minutes sooner than pearl harbor . both pictures suffer from making their audiences wait and then giving them very little reward for their patience . based on louis de berni ? res's novel -- which i am told is quite good , the movie is directed by shakespeare in love's john madden . with madden's languid pacing and shawn slovo's sappy script , the movie begs for a one word review : yuck . nicolas cage , as captain antonio corelli , and pen ? lope cruz ( all the pretty horses ) , as pelagia , deliver two of the least interesting performances of their careers . madras likes to beat his chest while saying corny things like , " i don't know how to tell you what's inside here . " when she complains that in a war there is nothing to sing about , he explains , " i've always found something in life worth singing about , and for that i do not apologize . " keep your eyes open because , if you blink , you'll miss their love scene . i felt the same way about the movie . it is rated r for " some violence , sexuality and language " and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * . although he was able to identify a few scenes that he liked , over all he felt that the movie was at best " okay . " in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	although their mindless banter is cute at first , listening to them becomes as tiresome as being stuck at a cocktail party between battling spouses . favreau , who wrote the bright script for swingers , writes and directs the surprisingly mediocre made . it's the type of film in which positive comments on its short running length will generate a good portion of the discussion afterwards . oh yes , and they are not supposed to talk to anyone . don't be surprised if you find yourself wishing that someone would jump out from a side street and plug one or both of them . one wishes that the actors would have fought more about the script before they started the filming , as both of their foulmouthed characters show potential . as people kept walking out of our screening , it was easier to sympathize with their plight than with the characters in the story . anything more is overkill . made runs 1 : 33 . it is rated r for pervasive language , some drug use and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * . he thought that it was only " okay " and complained that it didn't have much of plot . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	sometimes you want to go to the movies just to get away from it all . your brain is fried , and you need to relax . for just such an occasion consider giving your mind a present of the new film love always -- a lightweight , romantic comedy and road picture that is the cinematic equivalent of easy listening music . " i believe you can't experience life from a standstill , " says the film's lead , julia , explaining her philosophy of life . " i guess i'm a militant optimist . " julia , lovingly played by marisa ryan , possesses so much charm that she overcomes the fluff of the material and makes the picture worthwhile . in a year that has already included kissed's tastefully presented necrophilia -- now , there's an oxymoron -- and crash's erotic auto accidents , it is refreshing to see some good old fashioned and romantic sex . the opening sequence for love always features romantic intercourse , filmed in a lovely haze and with ballet-like choreography . although the rest of the film is not of that high caliber , it does serve as an indication of what new director jude pauline eberhard is capable . few directors can stage sexual encounters that are both erotic and romantic . those who try too often end up with little more than cheap thrills . the script by the director features some beautiful lines but others can be so awful that one wonders how the actors kept a straight face . " i just want that somebody to be me . " now , i ask my female readers . how would you respond to such line ? how fast would you show the guy the door ? filmed in warm hues of orange and brown , this whimsical little romantic comedy manages to charm you even when the story is at its thinnest . the one-joke show has her going every direction on the compass . still , this encounter is consistent with the rest of poor julia's life . this magical little episode makes no sense , and few households have concatenated tubs , but as a magical image it works . it is rated r for sex , nudity , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . although this good feeling , free spirited story is of little consequence , i liked hanging out with julia enough to give the picture a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	imagine the sexy jennifer lopez almost bursting out of her expensive suit and you nestled up right next to her . that's just the wonderful predicament that george clooney finds himself in the midst of in out of sight . of the many pictures made from his books , the most recent three are get shorty , touch , and jackie brown , this one is arguably the best . the first big budget picture by director steven soderbergh of sex , lies , and videotape fame demonstrates his dedication to character development over plot . as richly textured as a brueghel painting , the story meanders along giving the players adequate , sometimes more than adequate , time and space to develop their characters . scott frank's screenplay skips backwards and forwards in time with great glee , which makes paying attention important . the effect of this fairly random method of storytelling is to add layers and dimensions that a straightforward rendition would miss . their flirting at the cocktail lounge beforehand and their partial disrobing in the hotel bedroom is more erotic than many more explicit scenes found in other films . soderbergh realizes that it is the anticipation of the affair that is frequently as satisfying , if not more so , than the tryst itself . along the way we meet a string of curious characters . and this is only part of the talented cast . audience's enjoyment of the picture will depend in part on their ability to derive satisfaction from such a cornucopia of corny characters . thanks especially to the hot chemistry between the two leads , the picture will delight most viewers even while the lack of much narrative drive may frustrate them . it is rated r for violence , profanity , and sexual situations and would be fine for most teenagers . 
2	i have this sneaking suspicion that the extent to which viewers can appreciate dazed and confused may be limited by how readily they recognize it as a perfect capsule of mid-70s youth culture . it's a clever and completely un-self-conscious portrait of pot-smoking , beer-drinking teenagers revelling in the awareness that right now , nothing else really matters . as frequently as people tend to toss out comparisons between films , i think i can safely say that what american graffiti was to 1962 , dazed and confused is to 1976 . writer/director richard linklater's first feature was slacker , a quirky but gimmicky look at apathetic twenty-somethings that established his talent for creating unique and amusing characters . while many of the characters are recognizable high school types , what i found original was that these were types i actually recognized from high school , not from * movies * about high school . cool but basically decent randy interacts convincingly with both his jock buddies and the inexperienced mitch . linklater gives them sparkling dialogue , daring to let his characters talk like teenagers actually talk . the one major character failing in dazed is the absence of any equally interesting female characters ; many could be interchangeable . this is a male coming-of-age film first and foremost , but it could have been more inclusive . as a film without a real plot , dazed depends on set pieces and atmosphere . the hazing of the junior high girls is lively , as is a wacky monologue by the stoned slater about george and martha washington's fondness for marijuana . however , there's a fair amount of dead space , and it's left to the cast of unknowns to fill it . they are generally personable enough to do so , particularly wiggins and cochrane , but not always . as for atmosphere , it's dead on . dazed captures 1976 brilliantly , from the bell bottoms and feathered hair to the soundtrack of early hard rock classics to a pair of statues painted to look like members of kiss . the production design had to be perfect , and it is . anyone who can't quite recall a time when sex was safe and far fewer kids " just said no " should take a look just for the sake of historical accuracy . it's impossible for me to determine whether those not in my age bracket will be as enamored of dazed and confused as i was . it's a slight , loopy little film with no pretensions , and it was a page right out of my own youth . i don't know . . . maybe you had to be there . of course , * i * didn't inhale . 
1	an alluring biopic about the provocative comedian andy kaufman that couldn't go futher than to provide an entertaining look at the entertainer . if one was looking to find out who andy kaufman was , this film would be of little help . the point of the film being that there was probably no difference between the performer and the person off-stage , therefore it believes by telling the story through only his performances should give one a good enough idea of who andy was . the kaufman role was tailor-made for jim carrey and he comes through with flying colors in a virtuoso performance , as this fictionalized biography of kaufman , shows his odd personality , obsessions , and mind-set . the film seemed flat in the parts when carrey wasn't performing and his story seemed superficial . i didn't feel as if i knew him any better because of this film than i did before , though , at least , the film didn't try to answer something it couldn't . but " man on the moon " was entertaining , even for someone like me who has never been impressed by his comic talents . i am andy . " this might be the way it happened , but it made for bad cinema since he wasn't seen as being funny and his immediate rise to fame lacked credibility as it was filmed , even though we know it evidently did happen . the heart of the film and indeed what keeps it lively , is watching carrey go through his repertoire in a flawless comic manner . milos forman's uneven film is missing the true craziness of kaufman in the entirety of the story . he gets that ingredient not from the conventional way he tells the story but only from jim carrey's expressive performance , as the film went from bursts of great energy with carrey doing andy to dullness in storytelling . her part was so underwritten that there weren't even hints of where the romance or sex in it was , and there appeared to be no intimacy between them . she just seemed to be andy's prop , who looks delicious on the screen but was given nothing to do , but one turn on the wrestling mat . i can't help thinking , that aside from carrey's masterful performance , there's not much in this film to take away with you . the film seems to be an unadultered homage to kaufman , looking on the rosy side of his lunacy and not getting at anything else . kaufman seemed to always be searching for something , whether in studying transcendental meditation , looking for a psychic cure for cancer in the philippines , or a way to push the limits of comedy to a further degree , and what we see in the film , is that he never quite found what he was looking for , in a career that was far too short for a man of his energies and stated talents . 
0	this is the kind of movie that makes one appreciate disney's live- action george of the jungle . tarzan and the lost city , the latest attempt to bring edgar rice burrough's legendary hero to the big screen , is one of the most inept and ill-timed of any tarzan adventure so far . i have no idea why the producers chose now to bring back tarzan ; it's not as if there are legions of new fans clamoring for his next movie . furthermore , it's even more curious that this film is rated pg , which , by definition , rules out any sex or explicit violence . and , while i'm not advocating the excesses embraced by the 1981 bo derek version of the story , tarzan deserves a slightly more adult approach than the one used in the embarrassing production . of course , no tweaking of the content to change the rating could have saved tarzan and the lost city , since the film's troubles originated with the script and were propagated all the way down the line . imagine george of the jungle stripped of all ( intentional ) humor , and you have a fair idea of what this tarzan is like . with its uninspired action and tepid adventure sequences , the film barely registers a pulse . anyone in search of a relatively entertaining , family jungle adventure should check out the 1994 version of the jungle book , which uses the same basic elements to much better effect . the only worthwhile element of tarzan and the lost city is the pretty scenery ( which , unfortunately , includes the two lead actors ) . the film doesn't attempt to re-tell the origin story ? the thinking is that it has been done often enough . its patently obvious that casper van dien ( one of the pretty-boy heroes of starship troopers ) was not hired on the basis of his acting ability . with his plastic facial expressions , monotone voice , and complete inability to make convincing animal noises , his range rivals that of steven seagal . his pecs , however , are impressive , and director carl schenkel makes sure that he is given every opportunity to show them off . some six years ago , march give a solid performance in jean jacques annaud's steamy the lover . tarzan continues this trend . march may be attractive , but , at least judging by this performance , she can't act . meanwhile , steven waddington has serious trouble summoning up the menace necessary to be a really detestable bad guy . instead , he turns out to be little more than a nuisance . the story line is pure formula , which has largely been true throughout the years for almost all of the tarzan movies . the problem is that this one seems so childish and lifeless . the romantic elements are all contrived ? in fact , lady jane's presence is necessary only so she can be captured and subsequently rescued by her buff fiance . the special effects are truly bottom-of-the-barrel ( including some laughably bad men in ape costumes ? apparently , animatronics were too expensive for this production ) . and , of course , as with all jungle movies , there are the obligatory cute animals . over the years , the legend of tarzan has been one of the most popular sources for film series material . and , having seen tarzan and the lost city , i would argue that the movie-going public would have been well served if he had missed by 12 . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	usually my reviews are written before films are released , but what with the busy crush of openings for the christmas season , it was not possible for me to get to all of the press screenings . i missed the jackie brown screening because i always give preference to kid's films . even though mr . magoo , which screened at the same time as jackie brown , proved to be the worst film of the year , i don't regret the decision to take my son and his friends . so it was that i went to jackie brown late , knowing that some of the major film critics loved the picture . as i sat watching the overly long movie slowly unfold , i began to wonder what was the fascination that others had found and that i didn't . although it was by a director , quentin tarantino , who has made exactly two good films ( pulp fiction and reservoir dogs ) , and although it had more stars in it than i could count , jackie brown is a surprisingly mediocre movie . with different names on the marquee , i posit that the reviews would not have been so glowing even if the performances were the same . all of this notwithstanding , jackie brown isn't a bad film or an uninteresting one ; it's just a disappointing movie . the performances are okay although i do not see any that are of oscar caliber as many are proposing , and its story of a scam usually keeps your attention . the best part of the movie , written by tarantino and based on the elmore leonard novel , " rum punch " , is its nice , albeit too infrequent , collection of one-liners . the movie's best line has not a racist or profane word in it . the title role is played by pam grier , who started in a slew of low-budget , black , action pictures in the 1970s . the scam has a few twists , but it's nothing special . " i'm your manager . i'm managing to get your money out . " after an intriguing ending told serially from three different perspectives , tarantino tacks on a lethargic , feel-good epilogue worthy of a television movie . on the way home , my wife and i discussed long scenes and whole characters we would have eliminated to advance the story better and faster . jackie brown is just good enough to make you wish it were much better . it would be okay for teenagers only if they are both older and mature . 
1	the muse , directed by brooks and written by brooks and monica johnson , plays like an in-joke to brooks himself , since he clearly seems to have lost some of his edge in crafting it . a writer and comic who's the best when he's the nastiest , brooks creates for himself a character that's way too accommodating and sweet . at its high points , as in its numerous cameos , the movie can be quite funny . between these islands of laughter , however , lie too many deserts of blandness . his time alone with cinematic royalty doesn't turn out to be quite what he expected . " just remember , make it in color , " stan says . " people like color . " unless you've hired one before , you probably have no concept of the enormous cost involved in hiring a muse . as a would-be mrs . fields , laura is played in an awkward and wooden performance by andie macdowell . in a movie that needs more drive , macdowell functions as the production's black hole , sucking the energy out whenever she appears . where is a muse when you need one ? the muse runs 1 : 37 . it is rated pg-13 for brief nudity . it would be fine for kids 9 and up , but they would probably need to be teenagers to enjoy it . 
2	cast : jackie chan , michelle khan , yuen wah , bill tung , ken tsang director : stanley tong producers : willie chan and edward tang screenplay : edward tang , fibe ma , and lee wai yee cinematography : lam kwok wah music : joel mcneely u . s . distributor : miramax/dimension films dubbed into english miramax owes a debt to new line cinema . in order to facilitate jackie chan's long-overdue breakthrough in the american market , new line spent a lot of money hyping chan's rumble in the bronx , taking great pains to make sure nearly everyone who saw a print ad or a tv spot was aware that chan does all his own stuntwork . now , with a new soundtrack , the movie has been thrown into wide release , and , in its current state , represents one of the summer's best opportunities for pure , undemanding entertainment . with its infectious mix of action and comedy , supercop is vastly different from any big budget american picture . who can imagine arnold schwarzenegger dangling from a helicopter hundreds of feet above the ground ? then there are the martial arts sequences ( choreographed by director stanley tong ) , which are , quite simply , amazing , and remind the viewer that the fist is faster than the eye . supercop gives audiences an opportunity to appreciate the clown aspect of chan's personality ( something we'll be getting more exposure to in an upcoming american production where his co-star is chris farley ) . although he's best known as an action star , he's also a gifted comic . he has an expressive face -- his features go through more contortions than his body . supercop is a better movie than rumble in the bronx , in large part because it's funnier . the dubbed english is actually an asset for this kind of film -- the cheesy mis-synching of lips adds to the goofy fun . frankly , dialogue doesn't mean much in supercop , nor does the plot . it's a framing device to get chan into action . all we really need to know is which characters are the good guys and which ones are the bad guys , and , once that has been established , little else matters . as is usual in a chan film , the end credits ( which show out-takes of failed stunts ) are one of supercop's highlights . there are more laughs in this hilarious three-minute sequence than in the whole of kingpin . i can't think of a better reason to stay through the entire movie . ultimately , the closing montage points out one of the chief differences between chan's stylized , fast-paced films and those of his american counterparts : this is action with a smile , not a grimace . 
2	fields , i'd rather be in philadelphia . actually , for a movie that's so precise about time ( one of the characters is constantly using a stopwatch ) , the title's a little inaccurate . unless i'm completely confused about when things started and stopped , it's not so much 2 days in the valley as it is about twenty-four hours . what we have here is actually four individual stories that occasionally intersect , often in the most odd and unpredictable of ways . one of the best aspects of 2 days in the valley is the clever manner in which the narrative has been assembled . while things aren't nearly as elaborately-connected as in pulp fiction , i like the way paths cross , characters just miss each other , and everything comes together during the climactic ten minutes . while the plot of 2 days in the valley isn't a masterpiece of intrigue or intricacy , it kept me involved and entertained , and that's about the best you can hope for from this sort of motion picture . fate intercedes , however -- but not just in teddy's life . in one way or another , the wheels of destiny bring nearly all of these characters together , although not always at the same time and in the same place . 2 days in the valley has a penchant for the outrageous , with generous helpings of dark and ironic humor . there are a number of laugh-aloud lines , but the film works best when the comedy is of the " wink-wink-nudge-nudge " variety . or , in one of my favorite scenes , dosmo , ever the cordial hostage-taker , offers to cook pasta for his captives . teri hatcher fans will be pleased . most everyone in the cast does a good job , but the standouts are aiello , who is hilarious as the toupeed , down-on-his-luck , dog-fearing hitman , and spader , playing against type , as his emotionless partner . i enjoyed 2 days in the valley . it's pure entertainment -- nothing too serious , nothing too deep -- with an artistic sensibility . it's rare for movies these days to recognize that their audience has an intelligence , and even more unusual for them not to talk down to us . 2 days does both . so , if you're looking for some smart fun , john herzfeld's feature is a worthy choice . and you don't need two days -- just two hours . 
0	john schlesinger's the next best thing , starring rupert everett and madonna , goes all the way from being a light-hearted comedy to a tragic tear-jerker . but , since none of the sentiments ever seem genuine , the film is never funny or moving . our audience stared silently at the picture with all of the emotional outpouring of someone who had mistakenly walked into the funeral of a stranger . among the film's many annoying aspects is the lighting . this gives the movie the feel of one long photo shoot and reinforces its lack of reality . sam is the most plastic of all of the characters . he's perfectly happy , healthy and unaffected , even when the adults around him scream and threaten awful things . even in the morose last act , sam's negative emotions are awol . the mean-spirited and ugly concluding segment tries hard to be kramer vs . kramer , except that it can't . the characters in that film were genuine . " you're embarrassed , aren't you ? " abbie asks robert at one point . one hopes and suspects that that is exactly how madonna and rupert everett feel for foisting this travesty upon their fans . the next best thing runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for mature thematic elements , sexual content , partial nudity and language and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
0	screenplay : john waters . director : john waters . mpaa rating : r ( sexual situations , violence , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 88 minutes . there is something so petulant and defensive about the tone of cecil b . demented that it's almost enough to make you cry for john waters . he made the movies he wanted to make , and damn the sensibilities of anyone else . but times have changed since waters' early '70s heyday . independent film-making came into its own , and while " mainstream " comedy has grown more gratuitously daring in recent years , waters has drifted to the ideological center with campy-yet-tame movies like cry-baby , hairspray and serial mom . in cecil b . demented , waters seems engaged in a desperate attempt to be recognized for his edge once again . he'd show us where his sympathies were ; he'd give it to mainstream hollywood big time . this is what it has come to for the man who introduced coprophagy into the contemporary cinema : crafting a toothless , uninspired satire of hollywood , and using melanie griffith to do it . griffith stars as honey whitlock , a raging bitch of an a-list hollywood actress appearing at a fund-raiser premiere in baltimore for her latest mediocrity . it will be shot in actual theaters and movie sets , recording actual acts of anti-hollywood terrorism . subtlety has never exactly been john waters' strongest suit as a film-maker , so it may be unfair to expect anything different from cecil . nevertheless , it's wearying to sit through a satire that takes such broad , trite shots at its target . waters aims for guffaws from such predictable subjects as the cost of theater concessions , patch adams : the director's cut and unnecessary sequels , then gets even more insider by railing against fines for film set transgressions . even when it seems like he's preparing to let loose with his gloriously bad taste -- a scene in a porn theater where onanistic patrons appear on the verge of defending cecil and company from pursuers with a hail of bodily fluids -- waters backs off to something silly and subdued . cecil's 88 minute , non-stop assault on the obvious may not include a single honest belly laugh . and the sad part is , there are a couple of decent ideas floating around here . griffith's honey isn't really a character -- waters probably hasn't written a real character in his life -- but the charge she gets out of the underground cachet of working with cecil could have made for some sharp jabs at other big-time actors who work on low-budget projects . waters also comes up with an insightful line when cecil notes that there's nowhere for renegade film-makers to go but to the extreme after hollywood has co-opted sex and violence . in neither case does waters take the idea anywhere interesting . griffith's performance is high camp in the grand waters tradition , but there's nothing funny or clever about the way her conversion to cecil's way of thinking is handled . and for an ambush , pseudo-snuff production , cecil's film itself doesn't demonstrate nearly enough creativity or outrage . the way waters approaches his protagonist and his dream project ultimately doom cecil as much as its limp humor . it's certainly clear that waters disdains the vapid product shoveled into american theaters , a sentiment in which he has plenty of company . but it also appears that he has no concern for whether or not cecil's film is going to be any good ; to waters , the simple act of fighting the movie establishment power is enough to make him a hero . it may have been true 25 years ago that a film could be exhilarating just because its creator was daring and thrifty . today , it helps if the film itself is more than an exercise in self-indulgence . the bitter irony is that he's made something just as disposable as patch adams : the director's cut . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	screenplay : julian schnabel . director : julian schnabel . yes , i understand : happy artists do not exactly make for compelling drama . still , you have to admit that the cult of the tortured artist seems to have more adherents in hollywood than scientology . toulouse-lautrec in moulin rouge . . . tortured . so why is it that basquiat feels so completely unique ? perhaps it is because , for a change , its principal character is portrayed as a tortured human being first and foremost . this measured approach is surprising not just because write-director julian schnabel is a first-time film-maker , or because he was a friend of the film's subject , haitian-american artist jean-michel basquiat ( jeffrey wright ) , but because schnabel himself is an artist of no small renown . it has been a characteristic of the works of artists-turned-auteurs ( including andy warhol's and the ugly recent example of robert longo's johnny mnemonic ) that you could expect to find very little beyond the images . schnabel does create some extremely arresting images , including a sharp opening title sequence underscored by the pogues , but he has also left no doubt that this is a film about _someone_ , about some_thing_ . basquiat is a film full of vibrant characters , none more so than jean-michel basquiat himself . jeffrey wright , a tony award-winning stage actor , gives a stunning performance as basquiat , a lonely wraith who always seems to be hovering just on the edge of coherence . but schnabel also manages to show how absurdly easy art came to basquiat . indeed , when he is creating is the only time he does not seem to be suffering . it is also impressive that schnabel is savvy and confident enough to acknowledge the flaws of his own milieu , and the perceptions of the general public towards that milieu . the battle to represent basquiat is sometimes presented in melodramatic terms , with the artist forgetting the little people as he hits the big time , but schnabel doesn't gloss over the cult of personality of the art world . he adds the year's second superb portrayal of andy warhol , with david bowie perhaps providing even more clever detachment than jared harris's work in i shot andy warhol . watch also for a marvelous scene in which christopher walken plays a journalist interviewing basquiat , trying to bait him with subtle jabs at abstract modern art ; he speaks for everyone convinced that art is an elaborate con . there are a few clumsy moments in the structure of basquiat , notably the presentation of his relationship with another aspiring artist ( claire forlani ) , and the first half of the film is rather sluggishly paced . still , for a newcomer to film , julian schnabel is remarkably assured . basquiat is not about art as torture . 
0	screenplay : marlon wayans & shawn wayans and phil beauman & buddy johnson and jason friedberg & aaron seltzer . director : keenen ivory wayans . mpaa rating : r ( sexual situations , adult themes , drug use , profanity , brief nudity , violence ) running time : 85 minutes . scary movie's least obvious joke -- and this is a film that never met an obvious joke it wasn't willing to beat to a slow , bloody death -- is its title . scream , one of the 1990s horror films that inspired this genre parody , went into production with the working title of . . . scary movie . scary movie , on the other hand , went into production with the working title scream if you know what i did last halloween . that title may have rolled off the tongue slightly easier than that of shawn and marlon wayans' previous genre parody , don't be a menace to south central while drinking your juice in the hood , but that ain't saying much . these particular members of the wayans clan seem singularly fond of spelling out not just the general type of film they're sending up , but each and every individual film they're going to acknowledge within that send-up . i'm not sure whether the entire concept of scattershot genre parody is beyond my appreciation at this point , or whether scary movie simply made me feel like that was the case . i do know that it ended up making me cringe more often than it made me laugh . as much as scary movie owes to the zucker-abrahams-zucker team in its basic structure , it may owe even more to the farrelly brothers . simply put , this is as breathtakingly crude and tasteless a film as you'll see without going into the curtained-off area of your local video store . it's not that some of the crude sight gags aren't funny ; a few of them are worth big embarrassed chuckles . unfortunately , far more are either lazy or get really old really fast . scary movie boasts not one , not two , but three flatulence jokes , in addition to not one , not two , not three , etc . but at least half a dozen oral sex jokes . and that's saying nothing of the entire glaad protest's worth of cheap sexual orientation gags . i suspect the wayans brothers know their audience well enough to know that nothing will get the guffaws going better than an effeminate football player , or a butch girls' gym teacher , or a forest of overgrown pubic hair . i also know i've rarely felt as pandered to for so little playful pay-off . when the wayans' finally do turn their attention to gags with specific reference points -- the scream trilogy , i know what you did last summer , even an improbable nod to the usual suspects -- their batting average doesn't improve much . inevitably at least a few gags are going to hit , most of which involve the pre-title attack on electra . others are seemingly obligatory swipes at already-tired targets like the sixth sense's " i see dead people " line , titanic's " king of the world " line , heather's confession in the blair witch project and the ubiquitous " wassup " guys from the budweiser ads . there's rarely any confusion over the source of any referential gag , because director keenen ivory wayans will usually let a scene run on for two or three minutes of set-up before ever getting to the punch line . a film like this has to jab and move , letting its gags stand or fall without someone pointing to them and shouting , " hey , isn't _that_ funny ? " before scary movie's release , several critics wondered aloud how it could satirize a film that was itself a satire of other films . the premise wasn't entirely accurate , since scream was always a horror film itself , albeit a deconstruction of horror films within the genre . scary movie's problem isn't that it tries to do things scream already did better , but that it's not funny enough often enough . perhaps if more of the humor had hovered around the margins ( like the labels on a restroom condom machine ) instead of over-staying its welcome ( like the fate of a talkative movie theater patron ) , scary movie could have felt less like a marketing hook in search of some actual comedy . it doesn't take much creativity or wit to nudge an audience with pop culture references . it just takes naming your film something obvious like scream if you know what i did last halloween . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	but like most alcoholics , his abstinence doesn't last long . mike is a pensive guy who can read a player's hand in a heartbeat by observing every nuance of the other player's expressions . john dahl , director of the brilliant the last seduction , takes a parsimonious and precise approach to his direction of rounders . scenes are staged for dramatic impact without requiring the actors to push the emotional envelope . the script by first-time screenwriters david levien and brian koppelman takes a formula story and turns many of the rules upside down . the audience suspects that the movie may end in a big game , but the movie seems to be in no rush getting to it . what the film becomes is an atmospheric character study of the world of gambling . the script's sporadic humor bursts out periodically to shatter the story's more somber rhythms . mike speaks in frequent , rich narration to provide just enough explanation about the game to clear up some of its mysteries and to explain his character's motivations . " you don't hear much about guys who take their shot and miss , " he reflects in his most introspective moment . the ensemble cast is well chosen and developed to maximum advantage . malkovich has an over-the-top accent that is nothing short of hilarious . rounders has a well-chosen name for more reasons than one . an extremely well rounded film , it works as well in the small moments as well as the big ones . although the conclusion is satisfying and well developed , the journey itself is the reward . it is rated r for some sex , nudity , profanity , and drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
1	i suppose one could find some sociological significance to the glut of recent films about inattentive parents and neglected children , if one were inclined to give a cliche a more grandiose label . from whoopi goldberg in bogus to arnold schwarzenegger in jingle all the way , from tim allen in the santa clause to tim allen in jungle2jungle , the reformed workaholic has become the most popular protagonist in formula comedies , going through a series of wacky adventures before giving a big hug to a sad-eyed son or daughter . jim carrey is the latest star to step into this vehicle , and he certainly has enough pure manic energy to give is some spark , but he has to work awfully hard to do it . liar liar is a pure show-off showcase for carrey , and by sheer force of will he makes it funny , despite a ridiculously limp script which has only one place to go . i have this theory that the script for liar liar , credited to paul guay and stephen mazur , consisted largely of parenthetical gaps which read something like " jim does some weird physical stuff here " or " jim makes a goofy face . " there is a staggering lack of creativity in liar liar given the possibilities of the premise . carrey is trapped in one situation -- the courtroom -- for far too long , and that situation begins to look like an extended homage to steve martin's work in all of me , but without martin's ability to maintain his dignity . the dialogue consists largely of one fairly obvious put-downs after another , most of which are salvaged by carrey's priceless reaction takes and his futile attempts to control his honesty . it seems fairly evident that without carrey , liar liar would have been an utter catastrophe . with him , it manages some genuine comic high notes . carrey seems to realize that the entire film is riding on his shoulders , and he plays it that way , as though the other people in the film were scenery to be swallowed or knocked out of the way . for all practical purposes they are , particularly in the aforementioned partners' meeting , where a dozen people sit around a table for the express purpose of being skewered ; carrey often seems to be performing for the rest of the cast as well as for the audience . only cary elwes , in a subtle turn as audrey's painfully earnest boyfriend , lends any support at all . as long as carrey remains in overdrive , liar liar provides fairly consistent moderate laughs -- as well as a few big ones -- but the entire enterprise feels compromised by the tired paternal redemption motif . it almost spoils the fun of watching carrey do his best impression of a human pinball , knowing that eventually he's going to have to break down in a tearful proclamation of devotion to his son . it's too bad that , with carrey on board and a fanciful concept at the ready , liar liar can't work up an inspired story to match carrey's inspired performance . in fact , it can barely work up enough material to fill 90 minutes , resorting to end-credit out-takes to pad the running time . she may be right , but thank heaven someone involved in liar liar was working as hard as all these single-minded screen parents we've been seeing lately . 
1	latcho drom , which means " safe journey " , has no cast and no dialogue . this film , which tells of the migration of the gypsies across europe and asia , presents its story through song and dance . it is an unusual--and ultimately effective--way to tell the tale of an often-neglected people . through the centuries , few groups of people have been as persecuted as the gypsies . christians castigated them as pagans . the carefully-constructed picture of the gypsies could not be clearer , and the brushwork is accomplished without spoken words . director tony gatlif uses images to reinforce the power of his aural message . the most memorable of these occurs when a concentration camp survivor is singing a mournful dirge about auschwitz . we see lonely footsteps in the snow , and the impression is as chilling as the weather . many of the songs are designed to be accompanied by clapping , and the dancers move their hips in a manner that is suggestive and sensual . the most impressive quality of latcho drom is how much history it manages to convey using such an unorthodox manner of story-telling . the film is a sensory banquet of colorful costumes , lively dancers , and emotional songs . there are limits to what can be accomplished exclusively with music and camerawork , however . coupled with a slow ( and , at times , almost-somnolent ) pace , this occasionally makes the movie's greatest asset its most noticeable weakness . on balance , though , those in the picture's small target audience are likely to find latcho drom both appealing and engaging . it is undeniably different . 
2	cast : aida mohammadkhani , moshen kalifi , fereshteh sadr orfani , anna bourkowska , mohammad shahani director : jafar panahi screenplay : abbas kiarostami cinematography : farzad jowdat u . s . distributor : october films in farsi with subtitles after just a few months of limited release , the white balloon has already made more money in this country than any previous iranian picture , including last year's through the olive trees , which was made by international film icon abbas kiarostami and distributed by miramax . the white balloon , written by kiarostami and directed by one of his proteges , jafar panahi , has the characteristic slow , stately tone that dominates iranian efforts , but , at least in terms of its minimalist narrative , it's reminiscent of vittorio de sica's italian classic , the bicycle thief . our impressions of other characters are filtered through razieh , so we see them as she does , whether they're strange , frightening , indifferent , or helpful . it's new year's day in tehran , and , in ninety minutes , all the shops will close for a week-long holiday . like the bicycle thief , the white balloon proves that movies don't have to be plot-heavy to succeed . this film is strangely compelling even though nothing much happens , and that's primarily because razieh is such an endearing character . portrayed in a perfectly-nuanced , unaffected manner by aida mohammadkhani , razieh is one of the most impressive screen children since the protagonist of crows . mohammadkhani , with only a little help from her supporting actors , makes this picture . in addition to its account of a girl's fist venture into the adult world on her own , the white balloon gives western viewers a rare glimpse into the real iran . here , freed of political shading , we meet the genuine inhabitants of tehran , and , unsurprisingly , find that they're not all that different from us . the white balloon certainly isn't everyone's kind of film , but those with the patience to sit through all eighty-five minutes will uncover a sublime , unconventionally engrossing story . a controversy that has nothing to do with the film's content has metamorphosed around the white balloon . nevertheless , even though panahi has been forbidden to travel to the united states , he is well represented by his first feature , which speaks as eloquently as anything he would likely say . 
0	all-in-all , the film wasn't great , but sizable portions were redeemed by the wonderfully over-the-top performance of tommy lee jones . now , for a reason that has more to do with segal's ego than a creative impulse , the unsuspecting action-loving public has just had under siege 2 foisted upon it . those that thought die hard with a vengeance was a disappointment had better be prepared for the worst . of course , it's a well-known fact that segal can't act ( or direct , for that matter ; however , i'll leave on deadly ground out of this ) , but he's far from the only thing wrong with this sorry excuse for a sequel . >from start to finish , the script is stupid , the direction is spotty , the editing is choppy , and the special effects make doctor who's notoriously cheesy visuals look like flawless masterpieces . this movie is putrid . this mostly consists of segal running through lots of empty train cars , finding inept bad guys and either stabbing them , blowing their heads off , or throwing them from the train . as a villain , eric bogosian lacks a certain panache . to his credit , the actor tries to foam at the mouth and do all the other requisite things necessary for the audience to hiss at him , but he just doesn't manage it . as far as villains go , these guys don't have it . they're boring . during the course of the film , there are three incidents when our stalwart hero seems to be in a little bit of trouble , but terrible visual effects make these more amusing than tense . and then there's the big , joyous conclusion , complete with applause -- talk about cornball . this makes scent of a woman's grand finale look restrained . the whole production might have made a wonderfully campy ride if director geoff murphy hadn't taken things so seriously . i have come to the conclusion that it's impossible for a steven segal movie to be anything better than mediocre , and this particular travesty may be his worst yet . the title under siege is supposed to represent the situation faced by segal's character , but it's equally appropriate in describing the experience of the poor viewer who sits through this film . 
2	in most movies , friendships are the equivalent of cinematic side orders . especially in contemporary productions , almost every main character has to have a best friend . this facilitates character development and allows secondary interaction . rarely , however , is friendship the point of a movie . that's not the case in the object of my affection , which , although it is a little about sex and love , is much more about the undemanding , casual affection that builds between real friends . the chemistry between aniston and rudd is perfect in establishing this relationship . they have a real camaraderie which is only occasionally spiced up by a hint of sexual tension . jennifer aniston's movie career has proceeded along an interesting trajectory . she broke into the big screen business in leprechaun , a low-budget horror flick that she would probably prefer to forget about . in her first feature starring role , picture perfect , she showed hints of the charisma that has earner her a legion of loyal fans , but not until the object of my affection has she truly sparkled . as nina , aniston not only displays a surprising capacity for both comedy and drama , but she shines with the kind of star quality that only a handful of current performers exhibit . the object of my affection is clearly better because of her , not in spite of her . this isn't a standout performance , but rudd is good enough to convince us that his character feels genuine affection for nina . alan alda , who has a supporting part as nina's brother-in-law , provides a fair share of humor in an openly-comic role . and nigel hawthorne once again proves his strength as an actor by fashioning a memorable individual out of what is little more than a bit part . hawthorne's rodney fraser is the kind of sad , lonely man who effortlessly captures one's pity . many aspects of the object of my affection are not new to movies . in fact , the central theme , which struggles with the similarities and differences between sexual and platonic love , has been more fully explored in recent historical features like carrington and mrs . the one thing that all of these films have over the object of my affection is an edge ? each of them tries something a little unconventional and risky , while this movie attempts to be a crowd-pleaser . this is apparently director nicholas hytner's push to make a mainstream hollywood movie . the respected british director , whose best- known effort is probably the madness of king george , has a keen sense of character and a good feel for the details of a friendship , and these are the reasons why the object of my affection , which has a pleasant ( but not superlative ) script , work . for , while many of the secondary relationships are sketchily-developed and occasionally hard-to-swallow , the connection between george and nina is so strong and believable that it draws us into their world and allows us to root for the seemingly- improbable happy ending . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	at a time when children are reading less , opting instead for such fast , furious , and empty entertainment as video games and mtv , it falls to a movie , the pagemaster , to make the case for books . this clever , often engaging , and always fast-paced motion picture uses the visual medium to encourage its viewers to reach out with their imagination . they may not be as visibly transformed as macaulay culkin's richard tyler , but through the magic of page-turning , they can enter different worlds--or at least that's the message this release is trying to convey . jekyll and mr . if the sight of culkin's animated image making his way through these adventures isn't enough to pique the reading curiosity of the average youngster , it's hard to imagine what will . technically , the movie isn't an unqualified triumph . while the live action special effects are impressive , the animation appears somewhat rushed . it's certainly not the worst to have graced the big screen in the past few years ( that distinction probably goes to ferngully ) , but certain sequences , most notably those involving the pagemaster--who resembles gandalf from the animated the hobbit--look unfinished . on the other hand , the fire-breathing dragon is suitably imposing and menacing . with its curious mix of time bandits-like enchantment and plain sense of fun , the pagemaster represents the least-annoying and most enjoyable contribution culkin has made to the industry since home alone . this won't be the monster hit that movie was , but children venturing into the pagemaster should be no less beguiled . grownups who often feel insulted by the too-juvenile tone of most so-called " family features " will likely find this movie long enough to catch their attention , but short enough not to lose it--in essence , a surprisingly affable ( and occasionally even sophisticated ) movie-going experience . 
1	twilight is an atmospheric thriller , which unfortunately isn't much more than that . written and directed by kramer vs . kramer's oscar winning writer and director robert benton , the movie plays like an l . a . confidential-lite . it has the mood down perfect thanks particularly to a richly textured and somber score by elmer bernstein . all of hollywood's old school seem to have parts , but there isn't a single character worth caring about . still , one could think of many worse ways to spend a couple of hours than hanging out with old pros like paul newman , gene hackman and susan sarandon -- too bad their material is rarely worthy of their talents . but , everything is intentionally kept obscure until the end as if the filmmaker was worried that we might leave or fall asleep if he didn't keep everything murky . with the film's glacial pacing , the audience would have been happy to swap a few of the stars for a little more energy . as a chance to see some old hollywood luminaries act together , the show delivers . why they weren't given a decent script is the movie's real mystery . twilight is rated r for nudity , violence , and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
2	the eye opening documentary the gate of heavenly peace by directors richard gordon and carma hinton has the now famous 1989 tiananmen square tragedy as its central theme , but actually the movie paints evil across a much wider canvas covering the entire communist chinese era . even if you naively believe that you have kept up with twentieth century chinese history , i suspect that watching this movie you will be like me and find yourself learning one fascinating incident after another so that you soon lose count . let me skip to the recommendation of this review and say that this is one of those films that not only will people enjoy , but everyone should see it . keep an eye out for it . this film is about courage , not cowboy style bravado , but strong , dedicated and steadfast determination to insist on democracy and nothing less than democracy . the documentary has a linear structure with flashbacks used to put events in the proper historical perspective . the old newsreel and other film footage are mesmerizing . the film makes liberal but effect use of talking heads . the directors managed to locate a dozen or so of the key instigators of the chinese democracy movement , and each of them prove both articulate and thought-provoking . the whole tiananmen square episode is shown to be a tragedy of shakespearean proportions . not only was protest acceptable from an historical perspective , it was also legal since their constitution specifically gives people the right of freedom of speech . the government churned out movies , ballets , and many other propaganda devices to make this so . i am not going to tell any more of what happens since the film works as a mystery as well as a documentary . i confidently predict you will be constantly surprised . to make the film more accessible , it has no subtitles . the narration , based on the script by geremie barme and john crowley , is effective and moving without ever being manipulative . they use the story and the interviews to drive the energy of the picture . the careful and seamless editing by david carnochan and charles phied churchill is beautifully done . the gate of heavenly peace runs 3 : 00 , and as great as it is , it would have been better and more focused at about a half hour less . movies must be careful when they approach the three hour mark . better for the show to be widely seen by large numbers of people who know little of the incident than be longer and end up only increasing the knowledge of the already knowledgeable on the subject . the film is unrated , but would probably be pg-13 . although there are some violent scenes , i am strongly recommending the film to anyone old enough to care at all about the subject . finally , i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 4 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	cast : sergei bodrov jr . , oleg menshikov , jemal sikharulidze , susanna mekhralieva , alexander bureyev , valentina fedotova director : sergei bodrov producers : sergei bodrov , boris giller screenplay : arif aliev , sergei bodrov , boris giller based on the short story " prisoner in the caucasus " by leo tolstoy cinematography : pavel lebeshev music : leonid desyatnikov u . s . distributor : orion classics in russian with subtitles lyrical and evocative , prisoner of the mountains represents a balanced and telling examination of the absurdity of war . there's nothing fundamentally new about this observation , of course , but the manner in which prisoner of the mountains presents it is unique . the film's first priority is to familiarize us with the characters . what transpires in the second half only has impact if we understand the motivations and aspirations of each of the main players . nearly every interpersonal dynamic in this film is fascinating . abdul-mourant is painted as a fair , but emotionless , man . there's an old saying that goes something like : " we have met the enemy and they are us . " words to that effect could easily describe the growth process undergone by the characters in prisoner of the mountains as they come to understand how little there is that separates them . often , it's the little things that emphasize the connection . vanya repairs abdul-mourant's watch . dina offers the russians bread and water . the participants on both sides of the struggle have to consider what the word " enemy " means and whether the phrase " it's war " is a good enough justification for a killing . the movie , which was actually filmed in the caucasus mountains , introduces a world that is likely to be unfamiliar to most western viewers . prisoner of the mountains' camerawork effectively captures the setting , evoking a strong sense of place through views of mist-shrouded mountains , rough , rocky terrain , and green pastures . this is a timeless land that dwarfs human concerns , and it explains much about the hardiness of the inhabitants . prisoner of the mountains makes us think about the absurdity of war . it brings the toll of battle down to a personal level , but without the bitterness and rancor evident in american productions like platoon and apocalypse now . there's quite a bit of low-key humor to be found here , which may account for the tone being lighter than the subject matter might suggest . however , the final , darkly ironic sequence of the film drives home bodrov's point with brutal clarity . 
1	screenplay : ehren kruger , based on characters created by kevin williamson . producers : kevin williamson , cathy konrad and marianne maddalena . director : wes craven . mpaa rating : r ( violence , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 116 minutes . that's as succinct a summation as any for why , as this particular trilogy draws to a close , it feels one chapter too long . scream revived the moribund slasher movie genre by mining both laughs and scares from horror film conventions . scream 2 kept the pace by turning the satire towards horror sequels , and even the first scream . scream 3 , it turns out , does forget the rules . it forgets that a film based on scary parody of scary movie cliches had better be scary or funny , but not cliched . it seems someone connected to the film is creating his/her own murderous rewrites on the fly . there are suspects a-plenty -- homicide det . director wes craven and screenwriter ehren kruger ( stepping in for creator kevin williamson ) get so focused on whodunnit , in fact , that they rarely give any juice to what the person whodunnit is doing . there are a couple of tense moments , including effective use of a one-way mirror and the surprising perils of a movie set , but there's nothing to match the nerve-wracking drew barrymore sequence in scream or the crawl across the killer in scream 2 . as a chiller , it's fairly uninspired chase-n-shriek stuff . the humor doesn't fare much better , drifting away from commentary on movies to linger on commentary on movie-making . kruger tosses off some solid gags , but they tend to be of the industry-jokey variety ( including a few cute but unnecessary cameos ) . he even misses some obvious opportunities , letting characters split up in a big spooky house with nary an ironic observation and making everyone too stupid to draw connections when the killer uses an electronic device to mimic voices . it becomes too easy to see scream 3 as a step towards exactly the kind of formulaic horror film the series originally skewered . even when the humor works , it feels too easy -- and too played -- to take shots at the people who make the movies than to take shots at the movies themselves . kruger opts to chuckle at career-obsessed directors , bimbo starlets who don't know vertigo from psycho and genre film actors getting absurdly method about creating their " characters . " the height of irony is that you can see that kind of deadly earnest acting going on in scream 3 . she does her damndest to make sure we all understand how haunted she is , as though anyone could possibly care about the deep psychological underpinnings of sidney prescott . it's one thing for a character to make a reference to the developments in the godfather trilogy ; it's another for campbell to pretend she's playing michael corleone . scream 3 is a purely functional shocker , but it takes all the wrong things seriously and plays all the wrong things for laughs . craven and company have forgotten the rules , all right . they've even forgotten why the series was worth a third installment in the first place . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	screenplay : jim sheridan & terry george . director : jim sheridan . any time you put together a ten best list right after the first of the year , you leave yourself open to potential embarrassment . in the name of the father was one of those potential trouble spots , but as it turns out i still consider my list complete . don't misunderstand me ; father is impeccably acted and efficiently directed . it simply never gripped me the way it should have . in the middle of an i . r . a . each of these stories would have made a taut and fascinating film , but combined both suffer . director and co-scripter jim sheridan makes some questionable choices in the early stages of their relationship , the most notable being a lack of insight into their interaction before their incarceration . the later scenes , as the two men come to a grudging understanding , are much better , but they would have been stronger still with a more carefully crafted backstory . the legal story of in the name of the father is clearly secondary , but it provides most of the film's best moments . as an examination of the potential for bloodlust in english jurisprudence , peter medak's let him have it is much more effective , a leaner and more focused story of a truly criminal proceeding . the performances in in the name of the father deliver its greatest strengths . his character is not as fully written as it could have been , but day-lewis fills in the cracks with his intensity and attention to detail . peter postlethwaite , as the physically frail but morally strong guiseppe , is a powerful presence , providing a tough counterpoint to the mercurial gerry . emma thompson , in an extremely small role , manages to be cool and determined but little more as peirce ; the script just doesn't ask much more of her . in the name of the father has garnered tremendous critical praise and a handful of golden globe nominations , and while i found it a good film i wonder if some of the accolades aren't a bit excessive . with the exception of daniel day-lewis' performance , in the name of the father is solid but not spectacular , an example of taking two great films and turning them into one good one . 
1	a fairly routine contemporary western , which was originally shot in 3-d , but was later re-released without that gimmick . if you ever wanted to see both a rodeo and a movie together , now is your chance . under richard fleischer's capable direction , the film does a marvelous job of capturing the realistic flavor of being around rodeo performers . but the love story is rather sappy , and the point about how dangerous the rodeo is , especially for those who get older and can't stop performing , seemed too melodramatic . nevertheless , the film thrived on the very good performances by gig young and the supporting cast , especially by harry morgan . it was able to film an entire rodeo event in tuscon , arizona , in almost real time . it is basically a soap-opera version of nicholas ray's much superior " the lusty men " ( 1952 ) . there is good comraderie among the riders , featuring friendly rivalries , but there are also occasions for spats . 
2	cast : lili taylor , jared harris , stephen dorff , martha plimpton , lothaire bluteau , donovan leitch , tahnee welch director : mary harron producers : tom kalin and christine vachon screenplay : mary harron and daniel minahan cinematography : ellen kuras music : john cale u . s . distributor : the samuel goldwyn company and orion pictures the script for i shot andy warhol began life as a documentary before the producers convinced writer/director mary harron to transform it into a dramatic interpretation . the result is an impressive feature debut -- a provocative look at valerie solanas , the intellectual , possibly psychotic prefeminist who shot warhol in 1968 . since the film is essentially a character study of valerie , it gives an uncompromising presentation of her views and experiences . parker and the vicious circle , taylor makes us believe that we're watching valerie , not just an actress playing her . there won't be an oscar nomination for this work , but recognition of some sort is warranted . there are two other notable performances in i shot andy warhol . harris manages to capture not only warhol's strange magnetism , but his aloof , almost-shy nature . i shot andy warhol presents a toned-down , nostalgic look at new york in the late 1960s as well as the subculture that took root around warhol -- the wild , bohemian lifestyle , complete with drugs and sex . primarily , however , this is valerie's story -- an invitation to explore her theories and understand her motivation , even if you can't relate to such a disagreeable personality . in fact , i shot andy warhol is daring because it makes no attempt to soften valerie's character or blunt the downward spiral of her insanity . this is a film of powerful ideas , impressive set design , and compelling performances . it will offer fodder for hours of post-movie discussion . 
0	mpaa rating : pg-13 ( violence , adult themes , profanity ) running time : 112 minutes . i spent much of crazy in alabama trying to figure out the connection between its two largely parallel storylines . i spent much of the rest of the time surprised how little i cared . and i spent the final ten minutes marvelling how quickly a pleasant little film can turn ghastly . i must confess that i kept forgiving crazy in alabama its excess just because it was so unexpectedly weird at times , primarily in the lucille-on-the-lam segments . her adventures are so ridiculous it's hard not to smile . the story keeps hopping in so many directions , zestfully directed by banderas , that it's almost impossible to lose interest for long . it also hops back in the direction of peejoe's story , where strangeness generally gives way to sluggish sincerity . crazy in alabama plays its racial themes deadly straight , turning peejoe into a preternaturally wise and moral lad who even gets to shake dr . martin luther king's hand . in more ways than one , it's all black and white -- the buffoonishly nasty sheriff , the calmly liberal father figure , the noble african-american protesters whose plight is rendered in grainy newsreel-style footage . everyone carries on in the expected ways on the expected subjects , all leading to the one-would-hope-obvious conclusion that segregation was a very bad thing indeed , and thank heaven for a few good white people to help set things right . still , the zestful style of the lucille storyline makes it possible to get past the heavy-handedness of the peejoe storyline . . . thus is set in motion one of the most painful courtroom finales in cinema's long , sad history of painful courtroom finales , presided over by rod steiger as the judicial equivalent of col . kurtz . first lucille tells her tale of woe to the jury , rambling on about the horrors of domestic abuse for reasons too contrived to fathom . you'd suspect it was a matter of banderas indulging his real-life leading lady , if not for the fact that steiger follows lucille's monologue with a rant of his own . banderas loses complete control over his actors at the film's conclusion . worse yet , the film takes two sensitive issues -- the subjugation of african-americans and the subjugation of women -- and , in attempting to equate them , doesn't do justice to either one . it's a tragic miscalculation in a film which at least had a chance when it was quirky and frivolous . the real craziness in crazy in alabama is that a viewer might spend so much time giving it the benefit of the doubt . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	watch radha mitchell long enough , and i'll bet you'll start seeing a young mariel hemingway . watch high art long enough , and i'll bet you'll start seeing a heroin-chic spin on personal best . the " lesbian awakening " genre may hardly rival the mis-matched buddy comedy in sheer weight of numbers , but the conventions are just as conventional in their own way : wide-eyed naif , experienced older woman , tentative first steps , heartfelt discusson over what the wide-eyed naif really wants , oppressive earnestness . been there , done that , seen it all . there's one thing in high art , however , that i can virtually guarantee you haven't seen before : ally sheedy as a serious actress . sheedy's performance alone is nearly enough to recommend high art , and you can color me as stunned as anyone that you're reading those words . sheedy inhabits the character -- a woman who wants to return to her art but doesn't know if her past will permit it -- with an intensity only autobiographical subtext can provide sometimes . the impish grin of the teen star of wargames and the breakfast club now nestles in the lines of a haggard , drawn , aged-beyond-her-years face ; you can see the spark under there somewhere , ready for an opportunity to burst out . sadly , the rest of lisa cholodenko's script -- an inexplicable award-winner at sundance -- strands sheedy's performance in a sea of cliches and muddled relationships . it also makes syd's sexual awakening the center of the story , then fails to develop the character with anything near the necessary depth . everything about high art tells us we should understand syd's ambition , her emptiness , her readiness to be part of lucy's wasteland milieu , but cholodenko assumes too much and shows too little . like too many screenwriters , cholodenko assumes that situation will carry the story , leaving us with characters whose relationsihps feel like plot devices . though the seedy art-clique atmosphere adds a different dynamic , high art is still a formulaic film with little dramatic urgency . the urgency that does emerge comes entirely from ally sheedy , whose own awakening provides a far more fascinating story than the one cholodenko wrote . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	producers : alix madigan , agios katsikakis , andrew fierberg . director : jonathan nossiter . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , sexual situations , nudity ) running time : 90 minutes . at least he wouldn't have constricted one of the most compelling relationships of the year by subjugating it to a forced sense of social consciousness . nossiter's feature debut , the best dramatic film winner at the 1997 sundance film festival , ponders the nature of identity and the buried desires of lost souls through the story of a chance meeting one sunday in queens . is oliver really matthew delacorta ? though sunday asks plenty of questions without providing many answers , ambiguity isn't its problem . both suchet and harrow give intense , emotionally rich performances as people taking a momentary escape from their bleak lives by clothing themselves in attractive fictions . and self-conscious cinematic trickery like unfocused point-of-view shots when matthew/oliver removes his glasses . as a love story , sunday is often beautiful and haunting . as a film about a serious issue , it looks like a film-maker's attempt to create something to sermonize about in an acceptance speech . screenplay : matthew harrison and kevin corrigan . director : matthew harrison . first , let's clarify all the things kicked in the head is _not_ . it's not a whimsical , surreal urban odyssey like after hours , despite the perplexing executive producer participation of martin scorsese . it's not a good-natured slacker comedy , despite the presence of a hyper-reflective , ambition-deficient protagonist . it's not a gritty-yet-pop-culture-savvy crime dramedy in the tarantino mold , despite the plethora of shootouts and one inane discussion about the planet of the apes movies . and it's not worth a moment of your time . this is independent film-making at its most pointless and self-indulgent , mistaking profanity for profundity and incoherence for avant-garde . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	the first misconception to correct about michael moore's the big one is that it is a documentary . it's not ? moore doesn't make those . as was proven after the release of moore's debut , roger & me , the director uses real people , places , and circumstances , then stages events ( see harlan jacobson's piece in the november/december 1989 film comment for more details ) . reality ? a fragile commodity in any " fact-based " motion picture ? takes a back seat to what will play well on a movie screen . as a result , it's best to consider moore's films as entries into the ever-growing category of pseudo ( or " meta " ) documentaries . or , perhaps even more accurately , view it as an exercise in self-publicity . having said that , however , it's necessary for me to point out that moore is a talented film maker who is capable of putting some very funny moments on screen . and , regardless of what methods were used to produce the movie , it still makes an extremely valid point about the way big business mistreats its workers , laying off people and transferring manufacturing to third-world countries rather than sacrificing a little profit . having been " downsized " myself , i understand and share moore's anger . with roger & me and the big one , he has become the motion picture industry's champion of the " little guy . " moore's theme , italicized through humor , is always the same : that corporate america , in bed with politicians , is raping the common man . it's all about greed . the big one is a hit-and-miss affair . moore also has a tendency to dwell on the obvious , such as how corrupt and subservient to big business the political process has become . on the other hand , the big one also boasts some noteworthy scenes . the film maker , apparently not expecting this , seems genuinely moved by her plight . it's not a particularly satisfying encounter for either man . moore doesn't press very hard on the tough questions and knight comes across as more out-of-touch than genuinely malevolent . like most of the rest of the film , this sequence gets the point across without offering much depth . as for the title , there's actually a little mystery about what the big one refers to ? as far as i can tell , it's either the united states of america or michael moore's ego . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	screenplay : nicholas kazan , robin swicord . director : danny devito . every once in a while , when an exceptional family film comes along , i will attempt to champion it by challenging parents to put their money where their mouths have been ; with all the hubbub over the lack of films suitable for children , it is remarkable how many non-disney films disappear in a couple of weeks . now i see that in so doing , i have unfairly ghettoized these films . so i am issuing my challenge not just to parents , but to anyone who wants to support smart , funny , energetic film-making : see matilda . see it in a theater , rather than shrugging and waiting for it on video . see the best film i have seen in 1996 . not the best children's film . . . the best film . period . the wormwoods barely notice matilda exists , and when they do , it is only to scold her for spending too much time reading books . it was this spring's james and the giant peach which inspired me to note that the best and most lasting tales for children tended to have more than a hint of darkness to them , and you can bet that the roald dahl responsible for the gleeful ghoulishness of james and willy wonka and the chocolate factory has more of the same in store with matilda . and just as james benefited from the dark sensibilities of henry selick and tim burton , matilda soars on the cock-eyed direction of danny devito . devito made black humor a key element in throw momma from the train and the war of the roses , and he contributes some memorable images . matilda is just twisted enough to be a perfect fairy tale . it is also characteristic of the best children's tales that they manage to teach lessons in such a way that children almost don't realize that they are learning them . matilda is a story which promotes the value of intellectual curiosity over passive entertainment , and it does so while poking holes in that most frustrating of notions for a child -- that because " i'm big and you're little , i'm right and you're wrong . " more specifically , it has as its heroine an intelligent , self-confident girl who struggles successfully against other people's notions of how she should behave . it is no coincidence that matilda was co-written by robin swicord , who contributed the superb recent adaptation of little women . finally , matilda has that quality i find rarest and most treasured in family entertainment : it is family entertainment in the truest sense of the word . devito knows enough to make matilda fast-paced and appealing to children , taking a deliciously nasty performance by pam ferris as miss trunchbull and making it the focal point of some priceless physical comedy , including a great chase through her dark house . the child actors are winning but never obnoxiously adorable , with mara wilson making matilda a clever and extremely likeable character . i can't imagine anyone of any age leaving matilda feeling as though his or her intelligence had been insulted . matilda is a film which left me glowing with good feeling . i will see it again , and years from now i will watch it with my children . and now i will stop , because somewhere near you matilda is about to begin , and there is a seat in that theater you should be in , if you have a child or ever were a child . 
2	bound is a classic film noir . it is made even more so with at once both innovative and nostalgic cinematography by bill pope . although it is a color film , his color palette consists of exactly five colors - black , white , gray , flesh tones , and red for blood . actually , there is a smattering of a sixth color , green , but that is it . if you have to see blues , purples , or yellows in your pictures , don't bother to see this film ; they aren't there . if you want to know more about the process behind this , last sunday's ( october 6 , 1996 ) new york times's arts and leisure section had a long and fascinating article about the cinematic process behind this film . the answer , so that i do not get a thousand letters asking me , is " what is white to you . " it seems there are innumerable gradations of white , and the colors of the sets revolve that fundamental choice . the wachowskis both the directed the film and wrote the script . although some of the strong imagery and shock value is the same , the wachowski are just not in the same league as the coens . the only other movie credit the wachowskis have is that they wrote the script for the formulaic action thriller assassins for sylvester stallone . all of this notwithstanding , bound is a good show with more twists and turns that you can count . if you can guess them all , go to the head of the class , i certainly couldn't , and for that reason i am going to tell you very little about the story itself . to make their film noir fresh and different , the wachowskis have the leads be a pair of lesbian lovers . she is tough as nails , has lots of tattoos , and is usually very greasy from her work unclogging drains . the other , violet ( jennifer tilly ) , looks sweet and harmless , but isn't . the plot is an elaborate double cross labyrinth . editor zach staenberg cuts the scenes fast enough to maintain the high energy , but not so quick as to confuse the audience with the time frames . the strong and dramatic music by don davis has the horns blasting to keep up the tension . subtle it is not . the sound effects editing is equally heavy . the acting is all good . although he only got third billing , i was particularly fond of joe pantoliano's realistic bumbling . it is rated r for sex , nudity , violence , gore , and bad language . this is a film for adults and quite mature teenagers not easily sickened when someone's fingers are being cut off . i had a great time watching the plot's twists and turns so i recommend this movie although granted it is not for everyone , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 8 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	screenplay : john sayles . director : john sayles . this is how far i trust john sayles' skill as a writer : in the few hours after i saw lone star , when i couldn't quite get the pieces to fit together , i figured _i_ had to be missing something . perhaps more than any other filmmaker's next project , i look forward to the next john sayles project like a christmas gift . while he is still growing as a director , his scripts are so unapologetically and relentlessly literate -- and literary -- that unwrapping them is its own kind of pleasure . lone star , as much as any film of the last several years , is a novel on the screen , and a marvelous one . when i finally did put those pieces together , i realized how justified my faith had been . on its most basic level , lone star is a superbly acted study of life in a border town . the cast is uniformly in tune with sayles' naturalistic style , particularly chris cooper in a subtle but powerful performance as sam ; even frances mcdormand , as sam's manic-depressive ex-wife , lends humanity to an edgy role in her single scene . the multi-ethnic cast provides a solid foundation for an examination of a place where the " melting pot " is anything but . it is a place which , while less overtly racist than it was during charley wade's reign in the 1950s , is still characterized by an omnipresent sense of " us " and " them . " and that is the other thread running through lone star : the nature of history . in an early scene , parents of various ethnicities sit in pilar's classroom arguing over the way she is teaching the battle of the alamo , the white parents attacking her for suggesting that there is another perspective from which it could be viewed . then , finally , i saw it as absolutely crucial . at times it seems that sayles is suggesting that the only history that has a chance of being re-interpreted is the history which has yet to be created . lone star is a haunting film , which deals with unexpectedly delicate subject matter with startling confidence . the experience of watching the film sticks with me because i didn't just sit through two hours of film ; i was reading people's lives . that is the kind of filmmaker john sayles is : an author with a camera . 
1	mpaa rating : unrated running time : 45 minutes . these were basketball fans -- how could they not appreciate a tale of the greatest basketball player yet to walk the earth ? it is testimony to the astonishing appeal of michael jordan that even those partisans who should despise him still can't help admiring him . he is the sort of larger-than-life figure it seems was born for a big screen documentary -- and in a very limited sense , that's true . the early moments of the film touch on pieces that added to his mystique . there's the pounding theme of the alan parsons project's " mammagamma " that made chicago bull player introductions a spectacle unto itself . and there's a montage of jordan's legacy of ridiculous , physics-defying shots . he's such an unearthly presence in the film that i began to believe he could change history -- even though i knew chicago had lost one of the playoff games featured , i was still surprised that the last-second shot jordan took to win the game didn't actually go in . if all one was looking for from michael jordan to the max was a sense of his legend writ two stories high , i suppose you could say it was an unqualified success . but there's such an emphasis on jordan's inhuman will to win that his humanity isn't often in evidence . sure , there are scenes of jordan fooling around with kids at a basketball camp , and an effective sequence capturing the ever-present crush of fans that made his every movement a running of the gauntlet . there's just not much sense of what makes jordan tick . even when the player himself speaks , it's primarily in the well-rehearsed platitudes of a professional athlete : " i never doubted myself ; " " you have to pursue your dream ; " etc . it's a shock when we see jordan getting misty-eyed while discussing his relationship with his father , because it's such an unusually unguarded moment . it may be unreasonable to expect a piercingly insightful documentary in this particular format . imax presentations have carved out visions of the awe-inspiring as their unique dominion , and jordan certainly fits that description . instead of taking viewers into the center of real-time basketball games -- in effect , allowing them to be on the court with the legend -- kempf and stern use slow-motion for most of their game shots . they don't even bother to maintain chronology within individual games ( one disadvantage of the big screen is that you can see the scoreboard in virtually every shot , making it obvious when the film has jumped back a quarter or two just for the sake of a cool image ) . michael jordan to the max is all about its star power , the kind that even appeals to a theater full of jazz fans who would wish for a different kind of changed history . as a big-screen experience , it's all about keeping a hero larger than life . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	the game is a manipulative but entertaining film that falls far short of director fincher's more successful , seven . the game takes on dangerous pretensions , as douglas wonders if this is really a game or is it to be taken for real , or is he just being scammed . we watch him begin to unravel , and you are perhaps feeling like i do at this point of the story , that i am being set-up , following a tale that is so unbelievable , that i am being taken for a sucker to buy into this . anyway , we are not that concerned about douglas , maybe that's because we don't have much to go on why he is as obnoxious and joyless as he is , except we learn that his father committed suicide when he was a child and he never quite got over it . the best feature of the film is its unpredictability , it is what sucks you into watching the entire film expecting something sensational to take place . i thought any ending would be apt . i never got a sense that what was happening mattered . and when you become conscious that what is going on is all acting and only acting , even if films are just that , nevertheless , they should hold out the illusion that what is on screen is real , and if that is not so , then it becomes natural to lose interest in the story and you become prepared to accept whatever it is that you see happening on the screen , whatever the director wants to put in , any logic will do . i felt nothing as i watched to see if douglas will commit suicide , or if this is really an on-the-level game , or if douglas will be transformed by the game into a better human being ( which to me would be the phoniest way for this film to end ) . so when i saw what actually developed , i could only think of how clever this filmmaker is , that he used the same formula that someone making toothpaste commercials might use to catch the consumer's attention . art is more metaphorical than that , commercial films are not , their bottom line is always the almighty dollar and the gimmick that will get it for them . this film should be pleasing to those who like to play games . the director is a graduate from the video and advertising world , well able to work in that slick media market , who has come up with a novel idea for a film but one that falls short in being credible . 
2	the title of this film , the englishman who went up a hill but came down a mountain , is so long that it can function as a plot synopsis in its own right . " the englishman " in question is british cartographer reginald anson , played by hugh grant with his usual aw-shucks charm , and " the hill/mountain " is ffynnon garw , a 984-foot high protuberance in the welsh terrain . and , just in case betty isn't persuasive enough , the visitors' car is sabotaged . it's rare that a movie owes this much of its success to its director and stars . the storyline for the englishman isn't all that dynamic and the screenplay is rather bland . however , using the acting skills and natural charisma of hugh grant , tara fitzgerald , and colm meaney , director christopher monger has compiled a wonderfully droll comedy . for the most part , the humor is witty , not laugh-aloud funny . chuckles and smiles can be expected , but not explosive guffaws . the englishman is low-key in all aspects , from the comic elements to the love story . without the chemistry between them , this part of the movie would have been a complete throw-away , limiting the production's appeal . the supporting cast , comprised primarily of character actors , is solid . the englishman is framed as a true story told to a child and , as was the case with the princess bride , this is the best way to establish the somewhat fanciful narrative . the picture has some things to say about the importance of community and the desultory effects of war , but its primary concern is lightening the heart's burden -- a job at which it is eminently successful , regardless of how mountainous the task proves to be . 
2	shawn , john ratzenberger , jim varney , annie potts , and others director : john lasseter producers : ralph guggenheim and bonnie arnold screenplay : joss whedon , andrew stanton , joel cohen , and alec sokolow music : randy newman u . s . distributor : walt disney pictures toy story , disney's first feature-length foray into computer animation , postulates that they do it all by themselves . any who doubt this should take a look a t toy story . you'll never again feel quite the same way about mr . pota to head , monkeys in a barrel , or slinkies . of course , the visual aspect is the centerpiece of toy story . t he computer-generated effects are a marvel . rich in unexpected detail ( the grain of a wood floor , fingerprints and chipped paint on a door , reflections in polished surfaces , and so on ) , this colorful and brilliantly-rendered aspect of the film would alone be worth the price of admission . it's something of a bonus that the characters , dialogue , and story provide entertainment value of their own . toy story is a buddy movie/adventure tale with an understated lesson about the value of friendship . while the screenplay isn't a marvel of originality , it is capable of holding the attention--light , undemanding fun that n ever gets too immature or syrupy . there's also quite a bit of intelligent wit that will go above the heads of younger viewers--that stuff's for mom and dad . but that's a typical convention of animation . how does toy story compare to disney's more conventional animated features ? they're really very different types of productions . this film is less artistic and more technologically impressive . despite a few randy newman songs , it's not really a musical . of course , the target audience is the same , and everything from disney embraces " family values " , but it's difficult--and unfair--to make an effective contrast of the two film making styles . the one big negative about toy story involves disney's overcommercialization . it won't be long before the movie is drowned in hype . so , from the perspective of pure entertainment , it's a good idea to see toy story before the deluge of promotions becomes so excessive that it turns off every adult . frankly , the movie deserves a less ignominious fate than the marketing overkill which will surely overcome it . 
2	the martini brothers share the writing credits with the film's director , kevin jordan . the third man on a romantic mission is clive winter , played with the most charisma in a consistently likeable cast by veteran actor bill henderson . clive's character , as fascinating and original as it is , is relegated to the side ring . or is it the other way round ? it doesn't matter if you can't keep them straight since the story barely mentions the nicknames . ) any story that uses a female mail carrier as an object of romantic desire deserves some extra credit . " i'll do your taxes . " if there were an undo function for speech , he would have selected it immediately . the good-spirited movie is likeable although forgettable fluff , but its charm easily wins you over , even if its script is a bit thin . its most lasting result , however , is that it makes you want to see more of everyone associated with the production . it is rated r for language , some sexual content and brief drug use and would be fine for most teenagers . 
0	i enjoyed its silly humor , but if the microscopic ratings were any indication , the audience for elliott's fey goofball character was severely limited . it's therefore hard to figure why a studio would green-light a project like cabin boy , particularly assuming anyone actually saw a script before shooting started . cabin boy is dumb even by the standards of a chris elliott project , depending almost entirely on elliott's dopey grin and taking far too long to get to anything with any real wit . this includes a prologue at the prep school which seems to last about twice as long as the ten minutes it actually is . elliott adopts a supremely annoying quasi-brahmin accent that makes most of his dialogue grating , and makes about twelve jokes too many based on nathanial's condescension toward common folk . then we get a bizarre cameo by david letterman , which is almost funny simply for its bald refusal to disguise his regular tv personality . in a film which runs under eighty minutes , a tedious set-up is more than a hindrance . . . it's a pre-emptive first strike . once cabin boy hits open water ( or at least as open as it gets on the sound stage ) , it's no longer actively annoying . it's also not much more funny . elliott's schtick always tends to the surreal , but as weird as things get , they remain curiously uninteresting . if any of that sounds funny on paper , well , it did to me , too . it's the execution that fails . while the bargain basement production values might be endearing to some , i found the visual gags in cabin boy painfully unfunny . some of the verbal bits work , but in their rarity i hesitate to spoil them . i think one of the main reasons cabin boy comes up short is that it is so obviously a chris elliott vanity project . the four fishermen are virtually interchangeable characters ; not one of them is given a distinct comic personality out of which some humor could arise . there is a glimpse of what could have been in the character of the impossibly dense first cabin boy , who has a few brief scenes worth a chuckle or two , but he soon disappears . almost every punch line is elliott's , and a little of him can go a very long way . his comic vision is certainly unique , and viewers perfectly attuned to a mind that concocts a giant talking cupcake that spits tobacco might have much more fun with cabin boy than i had . however , i suspect a larger percentage will find it slow going , and exceedingly short on solid laughs . like caviar , chris elliott is an acquired taste . also like caviar , he should probably only be digested in very small portions . cabin boy was just too much for me to swallow . 
1	it's a decidedly corny and manipulative coming-of-age film that never quite grabbed my attention , but it was sure pleasant enough in a surface way , telling an old-fashioned story that carefully skirts any controversy . he says he took a job as an accountant so he would be sitting at work and people wouldn't notice that he walks with a limp . the coming-of-age messages in this film are presented in a low-key manner , as they reflect on a number of things seen through the childish eyes of willie , such as the pains of war , the disappointments of hero worship , the importance of friendship and loyalty , the thrill of puppy love , the necessity for community pride , the need for parental love and racial tolerance , and his overall fond memories of childhood . in a formulaic scene using every ounce of its energy to tear at the viewer's heart , skip wakes up after a life-saving operation , as an immense relief comes over the face of willie . the film should be enjoyed by children of all ages , as the dog steals the picture with his antics and spinning tricks and playful ways . adults might be taken in by a sense of nostalgia , about seeing an idealized childhood they might have had or wished for . those who grew up having a dog as a pet , should respond with approval about how much fun it was to have a dog . for the film to be better received , it would have needed more drama . but , as it is , it is good enough as a plain old-fashioned story about the love affair between an introspective youngster and his loving dog . muniz made for an appealing youngster , skip stole every scene he was in , and the understated and elegant performances by both bacon and lane , gave the film some life . if you're in the mood for a lighthearted boy-dog story and are not looking for anything deeper than that , then " my dog skip " will jump right up on your lap and lick your face . 
2	starring : kathy bates , jennifer jason leigh , christopher plummer , david strathairn , judy parfitt , ellen muth , john c . reilly , eric bogosian director : taylor hackford producers : taylor hackford and charles mulvehill screenplay : tony gilroy based on the book by stephen king cinematography : gabriel beristain music : danny elfman released by columbia pictures stephen king makes his living by writing horror stories , so it's odd that the most successful screen adaptations of his work are those outside the boundaries of his usual genre . stand by me , misery , the shawshank redemption , and now dolores claiborne are all intelligent , well-fashioned films that bear little resemblance to the gory schlock of sleepwalkers and pet sematary . parts of dolores claiborne are delivered with an unshielded emotional and psychological impact . the script is not consistently at this high level--there are times , most notably during the climactic sequence--when unfortunate choices are made , but the overall result is a film that illuminates certain " forbidden " shadows . generally , mainstream movies avoid risky material like this honest exposition of the issues underlying the fissure between dolores and selena . dolores is a sad , lonely survivor who has , perhaps unjustly , endured a lifetime of misery . less effort is vested in dolores claiborne's male principals . she has no reason to recall him kindly , and strathairn's portrayal echoes this . supposedly , he's a very good detective , but we're never shown anything other than obsession and bitterness . there's a lot to digest in dolores claiborne . the subtle visual effects , which mix digital animation and live-action , form an effective framework for a story teeming with emotional turmoil . although the forced ending , which seems deigned to create an unnatural moment of triumph , weakens the climactic catharsis , it doesn't diminish the human tragedy which is central to dolores claiborne . 
2	for today's cinematic feast , analyze this , we assemble the finest ingredients . for one leading actor , we put in one of hollywood's very best actors , robert de niro , who has been nominated for 6 oscars and won two . and for the other lead , we combine de niro with one of america's funniest comedians , billy crystal . for the chef , we use groundhog day's director , harold ramis , who , working with other writing talents , also comes up with a hilarious recipe . okay , so the right ingredients do not always produce a sumptuous meal . sometimes , they turn out incredibly bland ( father's day ) and other times , stomach curdling indigestible ( my giant ) . this time , however , the meal from appetizers to dessert is a real treat . well , twice . maybe 3 times . actually , he doesn't want to discuss it . the chemistry between the street-wise mr . v . and the intellectual ben is deliciously funny . " what is my goal here , to make you a happy , well-adjusted gangster ? " de niro and crystal , who are both at the top of their form in analyze this , have great chemistry together with both giving as good as he gets in the comedic battle of the actor titans . ramis has the good sense to have them play the comedy seriously , thus avoiding the overacting that a pure parody would have likely created . the best of the movie's sight gags comes in the wedding present that mr . v . sends the happy new couple . a vatican-sized fountain , complete with flying horses spouting water , adorns -- actually , totally dominates -- the sobol's front yard . some of the movie's best lines are unprintable . de niro , who has trouble keeping a straight face with his answer , provides a rationale that most people have probably not considered . the mark of a well-rounded movie is whether the supporting cast is offered as many good lines as the stars . by that measure , analyze this is certainly a success . " what kind of sandwich ain't too fattening ? " " a half a sandwich , " a never-weight-conscious jelly replies in disgust . comedies , even the best ones , frequently fizzle in the end , as happened in the recent office space . with melodramas , the conclusion is usually central to the narrative , but not so when it comes to humorous stories . analyze this manages to find a way to resolve the story's conflicts in a manner that is both satisfying and unusual -- a nice cap to a sweet comedy . analyze this runs 1 : 45 . it is rated r for profanity , brief sexuality and comic violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	this directorial debut for kitano ( hana-bi/sonatine ) is a visual stunner in unmitigated violence . the " violent cop " is as violent and gratuitously violent of an entertaining film as i have ever seen . but even as the chief lectures him that he is too wild , he has to admit that he is effective in getting the job done . it's an action flick that questions one's sensibilities and has enough original twists in the story to keep you guessing how many of the cops are corrupt and what method will be used to kill off the yakuza members . there was something very likable about kitano's monster cop that might be hard to rationalize , but it does draw him close to the audience in a surprising way . if you like your violence with a dose of some intelligent dramatics thrown in for good measure , you should find this flawlessly well-paced film satisfying to some degree . but you better have a strong stomach for violence and how ridiculous this story is , built around titillating the audience with an abnormal display of graphic violence . 
0	the " die hard formula " rears its head several times each year , sometimes with great success ( speed ) , but more often as a miserable failure ( under siege 2 ) . sudden death , a die hard meets black sunday action flick with jean-claude van damme playing the hero , falls squarely in the latter category . admittedly , any die hard clone is going to demand a heavy dose of the ever-popular " suspension of disbelief " . however , there's a significant difference between accepting a few contrived plot devices and being asked to swallow a storyline that is utterly preposterous and implausible . nothing in sudden death makes any sense , and there are times when the action is so outlandish that the film moves into the realm of self-parody . about the best thing that can be said about this movie is that the action scenes , directed by peter hyams ( outland ) , are choreographed with flair . unfortunately , the material connecting them is worthless . if this seems like the scene from the naked gun where leslie nielsen impersonates an umpire , it's probably just a coincidence , although both films have about the same level of believabilty in these instances . hard as it may be to accept , van damme has finally found a cast that acts on his guttural level . powers boothe looks as if he could care less about the role , and appears content to do the absolute minimum to cash his check . he's neither sinister nor menacing , and doesn't offer a single biting one-liner . the young actors playing van damme's children are awful and raymond j . barry's vice president is a walking , talking cliche . there's nothing interesting about any of these characters , and no real reason to care whether they live or die . for a movie trying to build suspense through the dynamics of character relationships , that's a fatal flaw . simply put , sudden death is a bad movie . although not quite as unwatchable as two of this year's similar entries -- money train and under siege 2 -- the film has virtually nothing to recommend it to anyone who allows their brain to continue functioning while in the audience . deriving shallow enjoyment from sudden death's poorly-acted , extravagantly absurd series of predictable action sequences demands one of three characteristics : an irrational fondness for van damme , a love of stale , artless films , or an unhealthy tendency towards masochistic experiences . 
2	never has chess been a more apt metaphor for life than in boaz yakin's feature debut , fresh . fresh takes the setting and tone of boyz 'n the hood and menace ii society and applies it to a thriller . gone is the documentary-like quality of filmmaking as well as the gritty sense of immediacy . fresh uses higher-quality film stock and a more traditional cinematographic style to distance the audience ever-so-slightly from the characters . with a script as smart as the title character , fresh keeps its viewers guessing . having a sixth grader as the protagonist is a stroke of genius that adds a further layer of tension to an already taut storyline . thirteen year old sean nelson's performance would make many older actors envious . without a hint of awkwardness , he conveys the sharp intelligence behind michael's wide-eyed , seemingly-innocent looks . the role isn't large , but this is an example of an actor at his most focused . the price of winning at all costs is depicted in the film's final shot . that's just one of the images that marks fresh as an atypical thriller--a film that succeeds because it defies many conventions of its genre . 
1	screenplay : robert harling . director : robert harling . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes , sexual situations ) running time : 130 minutes . the evening star has so much good will working for it from the start that it would have taken an effort to make it a complete catastrophe . screenwriter and director robert harling is well-aware of this history , and his opening credits sequence tries to make the most of it . over pictures of maclaine , debra winger and jeff daniels , michael gore's familiar terms of endearment theme plays , working that good will like a boxer works the body to soften up the opponent . the unintended effect of these familiar signifiers , however , is to remind you how much more focused and satisfying a film terms was than the evening star . the key to the success of terms of endearment lay in its pitch-perfect study of a contentious mother-daughter relationship , yet it is not exactly because emma is absent that the evening star feels less potent . that one relationship focused terms , however ; you knew exactly what it was really about . the evening star is in desperate need of that kind of focus . harling throws a lot of stuff at the screen , and some of it sticks , notably some exceptional moments for ross and a few catty exchanges between maclaine and richardson . unfortunately , there isn't enough of the stuff that works , and plenty of down time as harling searches for a narrative deserving of aurora's fire . shirley maclaine obviously has a blast returning to the role of aurora , and that obvious joy is likely to bring an audience with her farther than the material itself deserves . aurora preens deliciously after she spends the night with jerry , smiles a venomous smile as she catches patsy in a deception , and generally makes overbearing motherhood her own personal fiefdom ; it's just plain fun to spend time with a character this colorful . if only maclaine hadn't made so many of aurora's quirks so familiar by taking on a succession of infuriating-but-lovable roles distinguishable from one another only by the film in which they appeared -- steel magnolias , postcards from the edge , guarding tess , mrs . all found maclaine doing riffs on aurora with varying degrees of success , and even a lively performance feels recycled after so many precursors . it doesn't feel at all like we have missed over a decade of aurora greenway's life . we've just been watching her using aliases . it is one of nicholson's best and most restrained pieces of film acting in years ; he seems both genuinely pleased to see his old love , and genuinely unsure about how to interact with her . there is so much affection and charm in those few scenes , as all the soap opera plot developments and histrionics take a breather , that it almost feels like 1983 all over again . 
1	kissing a fool is yet another obligatory romantic comedy with dumb characters trying to plow their way through a morass of contrived situations . from that ringing endorsement , you might assume that i hated the movie . actually , given my expectations , i didn't think it was too bad . sure , i would have appreciated a little more originality , but , on the whole , kissing a fool delivers just about what i thought it would . in the process , it annoyed me slightly less than another recent entry into the genre , the wedding singer . there are three problems that make kissing a fool marginally less enjoyable than the average , formula-driven romantic comedy . none have anything to do with the cast , but can be fixed firmly on the shoulders of writer/director doug ellin and his co-scribe , james frey . the first is that the dialogue is boring . it isn't cringingly awful , nor should the actors have been embarrassed to say their lines , but there's nothing special in the words . apparently , ellin and frey were attempting to capture the feeling of the kind of stuff written by kevin smith or quentin tarantino , but they have the texture and the rhythm all wrong . the result -- forgettable dialogue that reminds us how talented the screenwriters are who can make viewers savor the way characters speak . flaw #2 is the painfully inept way kissing a fool is structured . for some unknown reason , the entire thing is told in flashback . not only does this saddle the audience with a narrator ( bonnie hunt ) , but there are so many cut-backs between the past and present that any romantic tension is completely destroyed . what's more , it's an unnecessary tactic . this film would have been significantly better had it been presented in a strictly linear fashion . finally , the third problem is that the audience is always at least two steps ahead of the characters . the director apparently believes that fault extends to the audience , because he actually thinks there's some suspense about who the girl ends up with at the end . movies of this sort add to my appreciation of the likes of my best friend's wedding , where there's real doubt about how things will work out . what kissing a fool offers is an old-fashioned romantic triangle done without much old-fashioned style . needless to say , audiences get the happy ending they expect . this leaves but one question . who's the fool : the film maker who thinks we'll buy all of this or those of us who actually do ? - ingmar bergman 
1	so you're looking for an erotic knife-throwing movie ? i thought so . if so , then patrice leconte's the girl on the bridge ( la fille sur le pont ) is just the picture for you . chief among its delights are serge frydman's sharp and witty script and the sexually charged performance by vanessa paradis as the film's eponymous lead , adele . with pixyish good looks and large gaps between her teeth , paradis appears less like a movie star than every man's wish for his girl next door . shot in an oversaturated black and white that manages to obscure the subtitles of some of the best sections of dialog , the movie is a fairy tale for adults . watching nothing but a large talking head for the first 10 minutes of a story will try most viewers' patience . and being on the verge of suicide is certainly proof of a lack of belief in the future . " see less . what she does see is men , all except gabor that is . " i always want to try them on . " the movie is never better than when she's strapped to the board , withering in ecstasy and moaning with every knife strike . as magical , exotic and erotic as these scenes are , they are too few and far between . the movie begins to end fairly predictably and then has the bad sense of timing not to stop but to keep going for yet another , equally predictable ending . the girl on the bridge , which is already a reasonably short film , would be improved dramatically by being much shorter still . it is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for some sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
2	you may or may not think this is one of the best movies of the year ( siskel and ebert , i know , do ) , but for pushing the limits of an idea , the movie ed wood by director tim burton has got to be one of the most innovative . i was surprised how much i liked burton's vision of ed wood since i am not a fan of burton's work other than his batman series which i sort of liked . imagine making a movie about a director , edward d . wood jr . , who was voted the worst director of all time . not only that , ed wood made what is widely credited as being the worst movie of all time , plan 9 from outer space . moreover , he also made glen or glenda , bride of the monster , and other such classics . there are two great things going for this movie . if you don't come out of this theater feeling upbeat , you must have gone in the wrong door in the multiplex . if the movie you saw was not filmed ( stefan czapsky ) in glorious black and white , then you saw the wrong movie . actually one of the problems i had with the movie was that it is playing the movie house with screens the size of small states . this is strictly an art house flick . this was a real problem for me . back to the fascinating story . at oscar time , expect to see nominations for best actor to depp and supporting actor to landau . this is one of those films filled with minor actors and actresses you have seen before . fact is stranger than fiction . since i have never liked johnny depp nor tim burton very much , that i am liked this film at all , is probably a testament to just how good it is . if you like burton movies , hey , you are probably going to go gaga over ed wood . as fascinating as the plot of this movie was , i found it lost my interest in parts . there is just so much to say about someone whose specialty is making something terrible . nevertheless , if you like quirky movies or if you are interested in the art of making movies , i am sure you will like this film . ed wood runs a little long at 2 : 05 . the movie is rated r for profanity , cross-dressing , and drug use , but it actually is a fairly harmless movie . i would have no trouble letting older teens see it , and you could take younger teens with you . i recommend it to everyone except the totally non-experimental types--you probably don't want to take " the grandparents " to see it . i give * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 10 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	this is one of the top fight films ever made , along with raging bull and body and soul . it is reportedly the role robert ryan , the college boxing whiz liked the best , and the one he probably gave his best performance in . it is the only boxing film developed from a poem . it was fleshed out into a screenplay by boxing aficionado art cohn . wise captured the mood of the smoked-filled arena , the fans' reactions , and the dirtiness of the boxing world . the film looks as if it is being shot in real time , as stoker awaits in the dressing room , exchanging good-natured barbs with the other boxers present and listening to their nervous chatter . the boxing scenes looked real . the crowd was made up of an assortment of fans , some there to wager , others to eat and enjoy themselves , some getting a kick out of the mayhem seen , and a blind man- having his pal give him a detailed description of the fight- just loving the violence . at this point , tiny tells his fighter the fix is in . ryan's performance gives this film the human drama the other great boxing movies just couldn't deliver . his drive to win despite knowing what that victory will ultimately mean and the noble way he handles himself , provides this film with an insiders look into the boxer's virile nature and the foolish pride he has in winning . the set-up was one of the few films ever made in which narrative time and screen time are the same-72 minutes . wise brought in former boxing professional john indrisano to make sure the choreographed fight scenes were realistic . wise , striving for realism above all , visited the boxing places around the long beach area , basing the boxing fans chosen for the film on the same type of people he saw while attending those matches . 
1	a great low-budget heist film noir . perennial losers in filmdom , elisha cook , jr . and stafford repp , fit right in to this plot . it made for a very entertaining film . 
1	it's also about the contrast between the handsomeness of the film and the way that it's so overacted and ridiculously scripted that it's sometimes kind of fun . his program consists of one world , one government , one goal and one language -- hint , it's not chinese . the pesky americans balk at joining stone's party . i'll bet you thought that hitler had an attitude . why york felt he had to camp it up isn't clear since the movie clearly wants to be taken seriously . ( the music , which doesn't have a subtle note , reinforces the gravity of the situations . ) of course , the movie will move towards a cataclysmic conclusion that might mean the end of the world . that part contains my favorite scene as stone sheds his worldly body and becomes a really cool looking gargoyle . it's a moment to remember . it is rated pg-13 for " violence , warfare and some thematic elements " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	titantic , writer and director james cameron's much anticipated and sometimes ridiculed $200 , 000 , 000 epic , arrives shortly into the theaters so the question naturally arises , whether the film is worth it ? as a business proposition , it seems hard to see how it can ever break even , but as a movie it is nothing short of wonderful . if you've already neatly categorized it as yet another disaster movie a la volcano or the poseidon adventure , think again . the movie is both a great love story told with the disaster as a backdrop and a portrayal of one of the world's most memorable disasters made real and personal by seeing it through the eyes of two young lovers . in either case , it is filmmaking at its best . when we entered the press screening , my wife asked the publicity rep if there would be an intermission since the film runs three and a quarter hours long . he said no but that the time would go by so fast she'd never notice the length . amazingly , he was right . titanic is one of the few long films that doesn't suffer because of it . although almost all of the movie happens in flashback , one of the engineers shows the elderly rose exactly how the ship was sunk . using a computer simulation , the movie takes the time to explain what will happen later , which adds immensely to making a lucid story out of what would have otherwise been hopelessly confusing . in a classic movie theme , the two parts of the ship , first class and steerage ( third-class ) exist in sharp contrast . the strength of the script is the way it paints the differences between rich and poor without excessive moralizing . never tawdry and rarely explicit , their romance has the power to sweep the audience into the story . leonardo dicaprio in his best performance ever plays jack with confidence and charisma . when he confronts cal , for example , he remains composed and polite and yet subtly undermines every one of cal's supercilious put-downs . kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose . the chemistry between these two academy award nominees , him for what's eating gilbert grape and her for sense and sensibility , is nothing short of astonishing . if the film breaks after an hour and a half , which is how long cameron wisely waits to have the iceberg show up , you will still get one of the best films of the year . peter lamont's sets are more than authentic . it then shifts to the ship's massive gears and then to the bright-hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling in the coals . easily the most fascinating part of the story is what happens after the iceberg hits and before the battle with the water begins in earnest . at first , since the iceberg tears a series of little gashes in the hull , not some big gaping hole , the passengers view the hit as more of curiosity than anything else . what a lark . we've struck an iceberg . their civility borders on insanity , but it is touching nevertheless . the story is so rich that my description has merely touched the surface . there are more than enough characters to love and to hate , and all of the casting is dead-on . special effects work best when their presence becomes almost undetectable . people are flung like ants either into the water to be shortly frozen to death or into other parts of the ship to be crushed immediately . besides being romantic and dramatic , the script includes liberal doses of humor . from the many deliciously subtle verbal put-downs to the physical comedy , as when jack teaches rose to spit like a man , the show elicits laughter in addition to perhaps a few tears . basically there was a design decision to have fewer than half of the necessary life boats -- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise . perhaps the sinking is best summarized by one of the guggenheim's on-board the ship . " no thanks , " the elegantly attired guggenheim replies . " we're dressed in our best and would prefer to go down like gentlemen . but we would like a brandy . " it is rated pg-13 for tastefully and delicately presented sex and nudity and would be fine for kids twelve and up . 
0	jessica lange is one of the most inconsistent actresses working today . from time-to-time , she blows away audiences with powerful , intense performances . and , much as lange would probably prefer movie-goers to develop amnesia regarding that particular entry on her resume , every once in a while she does work that is reminiscent of it , if only in quality . hush is one such example . lange is so bad here that she might have been fun to watch if the rest of the film wasn't such a prime example of motion picture tedium . the film opens , as many so-called " psychological thrillers " do , by posing as a light drama . the moment i first saw martha , i started looking for fangs . as long as she gets her way , martha is a perfectly amicable person , but when helen defies her , it's a declaration of war . hush has three very simple problems : it's incredibly dumb , it's incredibly boring , and it's incredibly predictable ( at least up to the stupefying ending ) . this film has absolutely nothing to recommend it , with the exception of a couple of nice shots of snow-covered fields and a quick glimpse of gwyneth paltrow's bare buttocks . frankly , it's embarrassing to watch a respected actress of lange's stature give a performance like this -- it's like a bad blanche dubois ( the role she played in a 1995 tv version of a streetcar named desire ) . meanwhile , paltrow does her best to get through her dialogue without gaping at the stupidity of some of her lines , and schaech attempts a passable imitation of an inanimate object . as in all psychological thrillers , the battle lines are clearly drawn . of course , since schaech's character is poorly-developed and badly acted , it's impossible to say how he feels about being in that situation . maybe someone should ask him if he's familiar with oedipus . she smokes cigarettes and drinks hard liquor -- two sure signs that the devil is at work . that's about it for character development . beyond that point , hush is just a series of increasingly hard-to-swallow coincidences , contrivances , and moronic plot twists . however , the first 85 minutes are just a warm-up for the ending , which is as anticlimactic as it is profoundly dissatisfying . i can't imagine anyone , no matter what they thought of the movie as a whole , liking this conclusion . either there was some serious last-minute editing or someone left out a few pages of the script . before the climax , i disliked hush ; by the time the end credits started , i hated it . viewers invest something in every movie they watch , no matter how good or bad it is . cheating them like this is offensive and unpardonable . most entries into this worn-out , worm-eaten genre aren't especially good . films like consenting adults , the hand that rocks the cradle , and single white female rely on stock plots and predictable twists to propel the narrative along . in general , however , they're directed with a degree of competence that assures a level of sustained tension . that's not the case with really bad thrillers like this , which fail to generate even a momentary heart palpitation -- the characters are too bland and the plot is too uninvolving for anyone in the audience to care . indeed , the title of this movie probably refers to what the producers hope viewers will do in lieu of telling their friends what they really think of this sorry piece of celluloid . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	( to those of you who are thinking that you already know the story , you probably don't know this one . even if you are one of the few that do , you'll gain fresh insights and see some chilling footage that you almost certainly haven't seen . ) chief among the stories you may know is that of the courageous swedish diplomat raoul wallenberg . the massive terror that the concentration inhabitants had to endure is hard to fathom so the film sticks to a few examples . the movie's most shocking new scene will undoubtedly evoke a strong visceral reaction in audiences . we have all seen images of emaciated victims of the nazi's cruelty , but they are usually black and white pictures of barely moving near-corpses . with malnourished bones and basically no fat , these men are reduced to a state where each step looks like it could be their last . he says he knows about the holocaust because he's seen the movies . he asks her casually if it really was as bad as the movies made it appear . " unfortunately , it was worse than the movies , " she replies with a look that suggests that she knows that he will never come close to understanding . it is rated pg-13 for graphic images and descriptions of holocaust atrocities and would be an excellent film for teenagers . 
1	screenplay : charles edward pogue , from a story by pogue and patrick read johnson . director : rob cohen . for my money , the best joke in dragonheart is one which probably was unintentional , and which works on a level entirely outside the world of the film . the joke is that , once draco speaks , bowen isn't instantly aware that this is the dragon he has been seeking for those twelve years . even after that long , you'd think sean connery's voice would be recognizable . of course , that is exactly why connery was chosen to give voice to the wise , crafty , wrongly-accused draco . it is one of the most distinctive voices in film , a rumbling burr which can be commanding , whimsical , regal or intimate at any given time , and it allows dragonheart to pull off an unexpected trick : you spend as much time listening to the dragon as you do watching it . draco is a marvelous creation by industrial light and magic , fluid and expressive , with a thoroughly unique look and style of movement , and it would have been easy enough to let it be a flashy showpiece . for a big-budget summer fantasy , dragonheart is really a film of smaller charms like the winning characterization of draco , like the goofy monk/would-be troubador ( peter postlethwaite ) who takes it upon himself to chronicle bowen's exploits , like david thewlis' snarling , reptilian villain . but there is something ever so slightly askew in director rob cohen's pacing which prevents dragonheart from taking off into a level of pure enjoyability . none of the relationships ( bowen and draco , bowen and einon , bowen and a feisty damsel played by dina meyer ) ever really click , the battle scenes are serviceable but perfunctory , and there are moments of dark ages-meets-new age mysticism which are played with an almost cloying straightness ( particularly the dewy-eyes-heavenward finale which i have seen in enough spielberg and spielberg-clone films to last me a lifetime ) . on one level , dragonheart is a rather silly and simplistic fairy tale , with a good knight , an evil king , a damsel in distress , swords and sorcery . yet there is an interesting twist to charles edward pogue's script , a redemption story involving bowen's motivations for his dragon-dispensing activities . that makes bowen a complicated hero for an action-fantasy ; that also makes dennis quaid all wrong . quaid's sly grin has carried him far , but the reason it hasn't carried him farther is that he's never convincing when he is supposed to be in a bad mood -- the wrinkled-nosed grimace which passes for quaid's " angry face " always look like the put-on anger of someone who is just about to burst into laughter . as a result , the rounded character of pogue's script is flattened on the screen , and ends up seeming considerably less vibrant than his animated co-star . for all its flaws , i was surprised how far dragonheart went on the strength of that one character . toy story proved that an audience could cheer for a character generated on a hard-drive , and draco is such a character . his plight in dragonheart is probably the only one which really connects , and it connects because he has both dignity and -- dare i say it -- humanity . without sean connery lending an air of nobility , dragonheart is yet another good-looking but empty summer spectacle ; with connery , it is a bit more fun , a bit more involving , and a bit more familiar . 
1	the brady bunch movie , the natural culmination of a '90s revisionist brady fad , is part homage and part parody . it takes the inimitable clan of eight and time-transports them , '70s attitudes and dress style intact , into 1995 . brady fans will find a lot of familiar things lurking throughout the film . the house has been recreated with excellent care to detail . the new actors resemble the old ones without being dead ringers . those looking for a nostalgia injection will find it here , albeit with such a self-mocking tone that some of the truest die-hards may wince . the problem with the brady bunch is that , satirical or serious , ninety minutes is too much . the first half-hour is clever , breezy , and amusing . the second half hour features a noticeable dip in the level of creativity and enjoyability . past the two-thirds mark , i found myself checking my watch almost constantly , scarcely able to believe how slowly the " action " was proceeding . one of the questions just about everyone is bound to ask is whether there are any cameos by the original cast members . without revealing precisely who , i can say that there are four ( one of which happens so quickly that if you look away from the screen for a moment , you might miss it ) . of course , with the uncanny knack that the new cast has for imitating their immortal predecessors , there's little need to keep looking for the likes of florence henderson . the brady bunch movie almost works , primarily because its creators ( one of whom is the tv series' originator , sherwood schwartz ) manage to tread the fine line between irreverence and affection . ultimately , however , the length is the film's undoing . no matter how tantalizing the premise , overexposure leads inevitably to boredom . the brady bunch movie is good for a heavy dose of nostalgia and several hearty laughs , but not much more . and for those who didn't like the family in the first place , this will likely be only a step away from unbearable . 
1	naturally , coming from them , it is a very loose interpretation of that greek classic . this film even gets its title from the part in sullivan's travels when joel mccrea , playing a successful director , wants to stop doing comedy to make instead a serious socially conscious drama called `o brother , where art thou ? ' the film will display moments of visual splendor and a riot of comedy coming about through the characterization of the three stooge-like convicts , but overall the film flags in its effort to make the story more worthy than a few skits that work . the major skit in the film , is a wonderfully choreographed ku klux klan rally that is disrupted by the boys in a comical fashion . the film reaches its climactic moment , when they sing in disguise at a political rally and get recognized with a standing ovation by the audience as the soggy bottom boys . the story seemed to die when it tried to conclude in some sane way , as the film was played mostly for the comedy , so the story had no emotional impact or little complexity to it , even though it lightly touched on racial and religious issues . there were also several obvious references to homer's epic , but mostly it was a film carried by the comedy performances of the three dimwitted characters , with george clooney showing he had an old-fashioned charm , much like the old hollywood stars , plus he has a good ear for comedy , and showed that he could carry a film . i was somewhat disappointed by this big mess of a film ( trying to depict the depression-era in the deep south as in the midst of great social changes due to anything from its music to the tva--with comedy being prescribed as a the cureall for everything ) . it was amusing and fun to watch , but could never get over its limitation -- a weak storyline . 
1	a chic modern vampire tale that is visually pleasing in its presentation but its scattered storyline seemed anemic , as it wavers between a love and horror story . it also offers a facile philosophy tract on good and evil ( the chinese director studied philosophy in england ) , as the director takes a stab at making this film into a religious fable about finding the truth . that i take to be the film's heavy statement , as it comes between the vampire's long stares , heavy breathing sounds , and gushy looks at his women vics before he sates himself on their blood . it was a strange and stylishly modern vampire tale that is set in london , that tried to be ever so cute and succeeded mostly in being enigmatic and weirdly captivating as both a thriller and a romance story . the relationship between the cop and the suspect was grounded in reality and had the only dialogue in the film that wasn't risible . their perfect love is interrupted by some ridiculous dialogue between them , especially the one about the theory of three-brains . the film isn't good when it comes to following the script , it seems pleasing only because of the visually chilling atmosphere it presents . this is the kind of delicate horror film with artsy pretensions that has law tell the pale looking l ? wensohn , that he needs the love that is in her blood . there were too many lines like that for me to be pleased with the film overall , as it seemed to me that it wished it could be more campy and funny yet it foolishly took itself to be a serious drama . there was something comical in its blood that it couldn't quite get out of its bloodstream . he lacks a specific component in his blood without which he will die . a good premise does not necessarily lead to a good script , and that's what does this hazy puzzler in : the beautiful looking film just doesn't make sense and can't be explained away by such weak attempts at philosophizing . 
2	cast : joaquin phoenix , billy crudup , liv tyler , joanna going , jennifer connelly , will patton , kathy baker , barbara williams director : pat o'connor producers : brian grazer , ron howard , and janet meyers screenplay : ken hixon cinematography : kenneth macmillan music : michael kamen u . s . distributor : 20th century fox frequently , openings like this are not promising , more often than not heralding overwrought coming-of-age melodramas of the most unremarkable sort . occasionally , one such film - - a rebel without a cause , for example -- strikes a nerve , but that's more the exception than the rule . no one is going to mistake pat o'connor's new film for groundbreaking cinema , but , for what it is , inventing the abbotts does a more-than-acceptable job . it's certainly better rounded than o'connor's last feature , 1995's circle of friends ( another romantic drama ) . nevertheless , i can't shake the feeling that this movie's reliance upon familiar , formula-driven plot elements keeps it from reaching its full potential . inventing the abbotts has the cast and characters to be something special ; the script just isn't ambitious enough . billy is friends with pam , but , although theirs is a platonic relationship , it's clear that pam would like it to go further . billy , however , is wary , telling us that " i witnessed enough of my brother's social agony early on to know that i would never let the abbotts matter to me . " we in the audience , having experienced many such movies before , know better . inventing the abbotts is a routine hollywood drama , which is to say that it doesn't take any chances and adheres rigorously to certain time- honored romantic conventions . the main story -- billy's relationship with pam -- is arguably the least interesting aspect of the film . in fact , the most compelling characters aren't necessarily the central figures . jennifer connelly's confident portrayal of eleanor crackles with open sexuality ; it's a shame that the film discards her so quickly . likewise , billy crudup's jacey is far more complex than his rather bland brother . watching inventing the abbotts is a comfortable experience . for the most part , the characters are effectively realized by a group of attractive young actors . writer ken hixon's screenplay , while not remarkable , includes a number of nice touches that keep us interested in the characters and involved in their lives . the broad strokes of the plot may be overused , but the emotions and details are on a higher level . the relationship between the brothers , which combines the right mix of friction and affection , is developed with enough depth to be convincing . inventing the abbotts would have been a better movie without the voiceover , a redundant and intrusive piece of prose that detracts from rather than adding to the story . like most voiceovers , this one greatly underestimates the intelligence of the audience . that particular narrative contrivance aside , however , inventing the abbotts comes across a genial , undemanding tale of love and life in the late '50s . and , while it's hard to get worked up about such a low-key motion picture , that doesn't diminish the simple enjoyment that the movie is capable of offering . 
1	screenplay : laurice elehwany & rick copp and bonnie turner & terry turner . director : betty thomas . it is official now : i have become everything that i despise . i am of a certain age where my youth has become a marketing tool , re-packaged and returned to me for nostalgic consumption . but those attempts to this point ( the beverly hillbillies , the flintstones ) have basically left me unmoved . the brady bunch . . . now , there's a different story . i grew up with them , and i remember their dopey antics with an inexplicable affection . so the upshot is , they finally got to me . the brady bunch movie is a movie that most likely was put together by chimps , and i had fun anyway . i think any discussion of the brady bunch movie must begin with this statement : you had to be there . familiarity with the series , whether in first run or its endless incarnation in reruns , is essential , since the film is composed almost entirely of bits and pieces of plots from the series . when the audience laughs at marcia being hit in the face by a football , or peter's cracking voice , or greg's attempt to turn himself into rock star johnny bravo , it isn't because any of these situations are inherently funny ; in fact , they are really fairly inane . but they are so familiar , so much a part of the fabric of growing up in america at a particular time , that watching the brady bunch movie is like re-discovering an old toy . even if you realize that it was sort of a stupid toy , you are still going to play with it , and smile while you're doing it . the brady bunch movie was going to sink or swim on the basis of casting , and there are both successes and failures . shelly long has florence henderson's mannerisms down pat as carol , and gary cole is a hoot as he pronounces brady platitudes with a deadpan solemnity . the dead ringer award goes to christine taylor , who looks and sounds so much like original marcia maureen mccormick that it is truly frightening . less impressive are jennifer elise cox , whose slightly unhinged jan is too reminiscent of melanie hutsell's " saturday night live " characterization of jan , and henriette mantel , who does a version of housekeeper alice which includes pratfalls and , inexplicably , a leather bustier . there are about equal parts homage and parody in the brady bunch movie , and both have their moments , but what surprised me most was the way the film managed to recall a simpler time without mockery . make no mistake , the brady bunch movie is occasionally quite sluggish , and required about a thimbleful of creativity . at the same time , it made me wistful not only for a piece of my youth , but also for an era when families were functional , communities seemed closer , and " have a nice day " was something people actually meant . 
0	but , like men buying " playboy " , he's only interested in looking at the pictures . other characters in the movie are dying to read the books . needless to say , boris isn't exactly telling him the full and complete truth about this antiquarian search . there is a lot of foul play afoot . the most surprising aspect of the movie , given the director , is that it isn't outlandish enough and lacks significant energy . a supernatural thriller that can put you to sleep with its plodding pacing is not exactly a recipe for success . johnny depp , who usually adds something special to any movie with which he's associated , phones in his part this time . acting remote and uninvolved , he goes through the motions but never gets involved emotionally with his character . the script bursts with clich ? d moments . " you don't know what you're getting into , mr . corso , " advises one of the book owners . " get out before it's too late ! " i tried thinking of any original scenes in the picture , but i couldn't recall a single one . the ending is lame and silly . this is especially infuriating since the only reason to sit through the entire movie is the almost academic interest as to exactly how the mystery will be resolved . the film is rated r for some violence and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
0	m : i-2 , the sequel to mission impossible , is a james bond wannabe film , but it fails to even come close to that film in wit , humor , and entertainment value . it tries to be a spy/romance movie , but without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses . it is a film that prefers techie gadgets to anything human . the coolest thing about this movie , was all the holes it had in its story and the most trite thing about the movie , was the usage of doves throughout as peace symbols . the film plays as if it was a wet fantasy dream about techie violence . except for the choreographed action sequences , the film was dull for three-quarters of its time , filled with too many dead spots in its story to garner concern about its wooden characters or the superficial romance that developed . as for the action scenes , they might look good to those who are converts to violence in their films , but their advertisement for sadistic responses , is nothing short of mindless cartoon violence , which makes it very difficult to sit back and applaud without feeling put off by the gratuitous cruelty seen . m : i-2 opens and closes with fast-paced action scenes , but it is hard to get past the middle part which just drags on in banal dialogue . the film looks as if it had been invaded by a computer virus , at that point . the only thing that kept me awake , was the horrible music composed by hans zimmer that became very loud at any of the film's supposedly momentous action scenes and seemed to make an uninteresting scene even more noticeable in the wrong way . it's a mega-buck film adapted from a popular high-tech gadgetry tv series . but its artistic success is an impossible task to accomplish because it hired the wrong director and actors to star in it , and it failed to produce a story that had any substance . the star of the film and co-producer , tom cruise , and his romantic interest , thandie newton , are miscast . cruise is no james bond and looks more like a yuppie than a superhero in his stylish long hair and innocuous smile , as he tries to carry off this macho role , while thandie is not an action-film girl , and seems like a fish- out-of-water in this one . their romance didn't work , not only was it tepid and not sexy , but it wasn't convincing . the film opens with dizzying speed , perhaps with the hope that a befuddled audience is its best bet for success . he also mentions that every hero needs a worthy villain . which explains the film's mythic theme . . . as the one who played the villain , dougray scott , does so in a one-dimensional gruff tone , which did not distinguish him in that role . at least , if the film got the villain part right , it might have had some fun with this nonsense . we already saw the gimmick of peeling masks used in face/off and in the original mission impossible , which as convoluted a plot as that film had , it was still a superior film to this sequel . woo has run this peeling mask routine into the ground , as it is used so often in this film by both sides , so much so , that it blurs any ethical character differences between good guy or villain . it makes it seem as if anyone could be another character , which distorts the reality of the film and makes it impossible for the film to make much sense . hopkins then signs off with the tag line : this message will self-destruct in five seconds . actually , with the departure of hopkins , it was this disposable film that actually self-destructed at this point . robert towne , the screenwriter , who contributed to the first " mission , " who is noted for doing " chinatown " -- writes a colorless , pedestrian script , one that fails even to be funny in a camp way . if i was only entertained by this . . . i could have lived with it . but this film was so badly made , that it was like watching a highlight film of a basketball game , seeing only the slam-dunks , but with the game itself being excluded from the telecast . in any case , this is a critic-proof film , and will in all probability do well in the box office , as it was made to appeal to all the demographics who find commercial ventures like this one easy to buy into . 
1	two minutes into the crude oasis , we know we've entered david lynch territory , even if the producer/director/writer of this film is alex graves . this low budget , noir character study , which takes place on the barren plains of kansas , has the kind of atmosphere and quirkiness that has become lynch's trademark . graves borrows it to his own ends here , but , like lynch , sometimes becomes so mesmerized by the weird trappings that he momentarily loses sight of the story . the interaction of this trio , or , more particularly , of karen with the other two , represents the sum and substance of the story . one of the problems with the crude oasis is that two-thirds of the characters have little depth or breadth . while we get a few glimpses into harley's psyche , the script keeps him at arm's length , and he never seems more than a plot device to catalyze karen's actions . emmy-award winner aaron shields attempts to bring some life to his on-screen personae , but the script doesn't offer him a whole lot of latitude . faring even worse is jim , who comes across as cold and lifeless . portrayed mechanically by robert peterson , this man could be a robot for all the emotion he displays . fortunately , the centerpiece is karen , and she is far better realized than her male counterparts . actress jennifer taylor , appearing in her first feature ( after a lengthy stint on a daytime soap opera ) , successfully conveys karen's ever-mercurial moods . this is not a standout performance , but it's effective . the crude oasis has a dream-like pace that is occasionally punctuated by brief , nightmarish interludes . surface changes -- what few there are -- are designed to echo more fundamental transformations . as a directorial debut , the crude oasis displays promise for graves , who manages to hold the audience's attention . certain choices , such as a long , lingering view of an approaching thunderstorm , work exceptionally well . nevertheless , techniques aside , graves gets the message across . to one degree or another , we're all prisoners of loneliness and isolation , but even for those most trapped , there's always some way out , even if it involves an unimaginable risk . 
1	director stephen gyllenhaal , who co-authored the script with nickolas kazan , says in the press kit that he did not envision the story as " a head movie or a toker's paradise . " magoo . although the story has promise and some good acting , the first two acts serve mainly to mark time until the picture comes alive with some much needed twists and turns in the last act . in addition to billy bob's acting talents , the picture has other little delights . " sometimes complications are interesting . " with its underdeveloped script , a few more complications would have helped homegrown enormously . but any movie with billy bob does have its rewards . it is rated r for profanity , sex , violence , nudity and , what else , lots of dope smoking . it would be fine only for quite mature and older teenagers . 
1	writer/director glen goei's that's the way i like it ( called forever fever in some countries and don't call me john travolta in others ) is set in singapore in the 1970s , when disco fever there was red hot . the film's wonderful sound track is full of good 70s tunes . the brooklyn accent proves the harder of the two accents in the movie to understand . ) the story , which works best when it's on the dance floor , has hock going too fast from clumsy to accomplished , missing many humorous opportunities to show him learning his new skill . instead of more dance numbers we get some subplots out of left field . one of the funniest scenes has hock trying on various outlandish disco wardrobes . like the much better shall we dance , the film has us rooting for him , even if the outcome of the big competition is never really in any doubt . " remember the more you dance , the more you romance , " the dance instructor lectures hock and the rest of his pupils . the movie should have taken his advice . way too much time is spent in lame comedy off the dance floor . otherwise , it drags like an old lawrence welk 78 record played on 33 1/3 . that's the way i like it runs 1 : 32 . it is rated pg-13 for momentary language and some violence and would be fine for kids 10 and up . 
0	screenplay : chuck pfarrer and jonathan lemkin . director : antony hoffman . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( violence , adult themes , brief nudity , profanity ) running time : 106 minutes . some genre films tease you with the prospect that they can be something more substantial before degenerating into stupidity and cliche . red planet at least does viewers the courtesy of not wasting their time with such futile hopes . and that scientist burchenal ( tom sizemore ) , he sure has an ego , which undoubtedly will create some sort of character tension down the road . dim-wittedness in hollywood action films is only to be expected at this point in cinema history . vaguely pretentious dim-wittedness is pretty inexcusable . you see , earth has become nearly uninhabitable due to environmental degradation , and our only hope of survival is creating a survivable atmosphere elsewhere , but something has gone screwy because oxygen readings have suddenly dropped . at certain points in red planet , you can't help but wonder why anyone wasted time on a back story at all . though the very survival of the human race is theoretically at stake , the film seems interested in that point only to the extent that it can be included in press notes , in absurd declarations like , " it's a smart movie that posits the question , what if man fails to do the things necessary to live on earth ? " in fact , red planet resolutely refuses to deal with anything beyond the basic goals of its characters to find a way back to earth . what exactly was the reason that no one could detect any oxygen , when it turns out there's a whole lot of it around ? and why flirt with the notion that there's some intelligence bent on thwarting the terraforming effort , only to make the real villain of the piece the crew's resident malfunctioning evil robot ? silly questions , of course , since red planet is kind enough to alert you so quickly to its minimalist intentions . the characters spout dialogue that alternates between inane exposition and pointless self-characterization . " we're sexually attracted to one another , so i hope neither one of us dies , " say bowman and gallagher , though not in so many words . " i sure wish it didn't take 40 minutes for you to answer , " says bowman after sending a radio message to earth , actually in so many words , just to let us know the writers knew at least one science fact . it's a wonderful irony in red planet that it places so much weight on the fate of these six characters , only to make them utterly weightless as actual characters . at odd intervals , something happens to slap the film out of its oxygen-deprived stupor . most of them involve moss , whose strong presence occasionally tricks you into thinking the film is better than it is . one involves a great shot of the mars lander taking a tumble for which it certainly wasn't designed . and , sadly , many others involve the pleasure of watching one or another of the annoying characters meet an untimely demise . as directed by rookie feature director antony hoffman , this is a lame special effects-driven action film that can't even be bothered to provide a handful of visceral thrills . lacking big-time action excitement , competent story-telling or any desire to prevent you from walking out scratching deep trenches into your head , red planet is simply a planet-sized waste of time . but at least it only wastes a few minutes of your time before making that obvious . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	screenplay : john brancato and michael ferris . director : david fincher . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes , intense situations ) running time : 123 minutes . there are bound to be fans of seven who will view director david fincher's follow-up project , the game , as a sell-out . . . but fincher's 1995 thriller may have been the decade's most baffling blockbuster -- a horrifying , unnerving , bleak vision of millennial dread which was everything a hollywood success wasn't supposed to be , yet still somehow made $100 million . it left viewers shaken and emotionally drained like nothing in recent memory . the wonderfully surprising thing about the game is that it may be the best choice fincher could have made . free from the ridiculous expectations of alien3 and the off-putting subject matter of seven , fincher might finally be recognized as the most gifted director of suspense films working today . the game is a gripping , dizzying and thoroughly entertaining thriller which bears no resemblance whatsoever to seven , except in the obvious talent of the director . he's not even sure when -- or if -- it will begin . and for the audience , that's half the fun . fincher wrings an unbelievable amount of tension out of the likelihood that something will happen , even though nothing is actually happening . then the game does begin , and fincher tightens the screws psychologically as well as viscerally . as tautly as he can fashion a chase or an action sequence , he's even better at creating a pervasive atmosphere of impending doom , or the unsettling possibility that literally anything could happen next . if action/suspense films , according to the popular metaphor , are roller-coasters , fincher's ride is a suspended roller-coaster : not only are you moving at breakneck speed , you can't even see the track to anticipate which way you're going to turn . that's saying quite a lot because , if you think about it carefully , you'll realize there's really only one way the film can pay off . even though you may know where the game ultimately will end up , fincher makes sure you don't know how you're going to get there . the game's somewhat predictable script comes from the team of john brancato and michael ferris , who sent sandra bullock through similar everyperson-in-peril paces in the net . don't let that keep you away . michael douglas' characteristic intensity and determination give the game an edge bullock couldn't muster , while fincher sets up even simple shots with a shudder-inducing elegance ( i'm not sure i've seen an elevator door open with more menace than it does in the game , and that includes the shining ) . this time , however , it's possible to enjoy fincher's shudders with a smile . the game may not be as profound an experience as seven , but it's a more satisfying one . if this is david fincher's idea of selling out , i hope folks are buying . we may be looking at the emergence of this generation's hitchcock . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	first-time film director and former music video director spike jonze has come up with a tantalizing feast for the self to nosh on , cooked by charles kaufman's original screenplay , that offers up some very intangible delicacies on its plate , such as a psychological , personal and sexual identity study , allowing the eater to suspend belief about what is being digested and be allowed to tastefully enter into the mind of another being . it is a playful and provocative look at determining one's identity and how celebrity is viewed from within , featuring an actual celebrity , the performer , john malkovich , who is playing himself , as the mind who is being entered . if someone could market via virtual reality how to actually do that , it might cost as much as $200 for a 15 minute sightseeing trip down that path , the charge established in the film for such a trip , while for the movie viewer it is only for the nominal cost of a movie ticket that one gets to have such a unique experience . the running gag being , that the overhead and the rent are also low here . since the glimpse into malkovich's head is more or less fictional , it's delightfully funny to find craig turning up inside the man's head and to find the actor eating toast and reading the wall street journal in his park avenue apartment . the film was brilliant in spots but towards the end ran out of enough nourishing food to sustain its steady diet of farcical comedy . but even as it was petering out , it still managed to have enough brilliant glimpses at celebrity and how some crave that sort of identity , to make it both hilarious and somewhat intellectually appealing , and leave off with an ending that is unnerving . what makes this insane premise work out so surprisingly well , is that the actors get the joke and run with it , even flushing out seemingly irrelevant things about one's inner being along the way that are fun to scrutinize . and if anything more can be said about john malkovich than that he is a grand actor , it is that he comes across as a good person , someone with a good sense of humor and someone who is able to heartily have a laugh at himself even if it is supposedly at his own expense . this is the kind of strange film that one would expect to be released as an art-house indie , yet here it is playing as a mainstream big production . 
1	the payoff in the film comes in a slick surprise ending , as now has become the custom of the director and is what the audience expects . night has honed his skills from his previous films by showing an improvement in technique and filmmaking style , while continuing his penchant for making films with box-office pop . though there is a certain disdainful emptiness in this film , as there was in his others , but this film sustains itself with the keen performances by the understated one bruce willis gives and the punctiliously perverse one samuel l . jackson gives , as the film is able to amble along at its leisurely pace , building on character development and the unique relationship the two stars develop , until the mystery story takes hold in the last twenty minutes and puts the exclamation point on the far-fetched tale it was weaving . this subdued action film is unlike other action-hero films , as the action is not the thing here . what counts the most , is what secret the film is covering up and why . it is especially delightful for those who like puzzlers and think they can gather enough clues to take a stab at guessing the outcome . even though night has matured as a director , this surprise ending is not as engaging as the one he came up with in the blockbuster the sixth sense , which caught audiences completely off-guard . but this film is a more mature work and has fuller characterizations . so the former has arguably a better ending , but this one is a better realized overall film . the basic plot is simple . as his face changes expressions , we can sense something tragic is about to happen . elijah believes that david may be the 'unbreakable' person he is looking for , someone to give hope for this mediocre age we live in , as he believes the super-hero myth is as true as if it was history -- which is asking a lot for an adult audience to swallow , but . . . that's hollywood ! and if he has a weakness , it might be water , as even superman had a weakness from kryptonite . his reasoning supposes -- " if there is someone like me in the world , shouldn't there be someone at the other end of the spectrum ? " the major stumbling block , to this otherwise involving film , is the let down in the third act . the action in it seemed obligatory and not really germane to the story , as an anonymous psycho serial killer is introduced to prove that david has the super-powers of the comic book hero . this encounter , of him stopping the violent psychopath killer never worked right , as it seemed flat and arbitrary , spoiling but not ruining the overall achievement of the film . what this unconventional mainstream film did right for itself , was to provide a modern type of super-hero for an audience that thrives on escapist films that can fill them with some hope that there's a savior out there in the fight between good and evil ( something hollywood films could always be counted on to provide the public with ) . it is a film that is confident enough of its ability to tell its story that it doesn't have to rely on special effects . and , perhaps , as an homage to hitchcock or maybe it's a case of egomania , night once again appears in his own film . 
2	starring : rip torn , tantoo cardinal , bill raymond , michael j . fox , mark margolis , treat williams director : jay craven producers : jay craven and bess o'brien screenplay : jay craven and don bredes based on the novel by howard frank mosher music : the horseflies released by caledonia pictures one hardly expects a movie about logging to be this compelling . the reason is that co-writer/director jay craven has the good sense to keep the actual mechanics of logging in the background while bringing the characters to the fore . and no matter how much rip torn's noel lord may be shaped by his craft ( " i'm a logger . no matter how much we hate to admit it , this has always been the way of this country , and jay craven's feature debut is just another example . quinn and clayton are stereotypes , and no attempt is made to characterize them as more than one-dimensional villains . they want the land , and that's all there is to it . the reality of their interactions easily shunts aside the shallowness with which the script treats the power company executives . veteran actor rip torn , who played similar parts in heartland and cross creek , gives a gritty , gutsy performance as the long-haired , cigarette-smoking noel . one doesn't often talk about " chemistry " with older characters , but it's definitely there . in addition to being beautifully photographed and establishing a strong sense of " place " , craven's film is thoughtful , well-paced , and never manipulative . the latter is critical , because it keeps certain scenes from descending into melodrama . ultimately , this period piece gives us a glimpse into a part of history that many may not be familiar with . even more importantly , it presents an opportunity to spend one- hundred odd minutes with a pair of characters the likes of which we rarely come across - in person or on screen . 
2	u . s . availability : 6/9/95 running length : 1 : 51 mpaa classification : r ( profanity , mature themes , implied violence ) at one point during this movie , paul comments to auggie that " to make up a good story , you have to know how to push all the right buttons . " smoke follows its own advice , but without laying it on too thick . if there was an obvious fault with wang's joy luck club , it's that the director tried too hard to coax tears . smoke is much more honest in the way it represents its characters and their relationships with each other . the dialogue , written by paul auster , sparkles . each conversation has at least one memorable line , and it's always delivered in such a casual manner that it blends right in . auster's creations speak and act like real people , and that helps us identify with them . the script has not " dumbed up " what the characters say simply to appeal to a wider audience . the power of an image -- any image -- is reinforced , much as in before the rain . fine , understated performances abound . the most striking performance , however , belongs to ashley judd , who , in a small role , reaffirms why she drew so much praise for her ruby in paradise debut . smoke , in addition to being the movie's title , is also a recurring device . it seems that everyone in this film smokes . puffing on a cigarette or cigar is a way to relax and relate to one another . it's a conversation-starter or stopper , depending on the situation . no matter what's happening in this film , smoke is always there , swirling through the air . small , character-based films like this are easily lost in the press of mainstream summer movies . its warm , pleasant glow may remind you of just how relaxing some summer experiences can be . 
0	director : gary fleder . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , violence , adult themes ) running time : 115 minutes . i'm thinking of putting together a self-help book which would assist talented performers trying to come to terms with making a terrible film . i'd call it something like " smart actors , foolish choices , " or maybe " why bad movies happen to good people . " within its pages would be testemonials and guidance , reminding the readers that they're not alone in making the isolated career blunder . bad example . for an actor wallowing in " what was i thinking ? " , of course , my motives wouldn't be entirely altruistic . my research might also help me understand how films like kiss the girls come to pass . somewhere in this trite , uninspired psycho-thriller , two gifted actors found something worth exploring . i wish i could figure out what that thing was . it's not just that kiss the girls trots out the over-used serial predator as its villain , or that it relies on a " surprising " revelation of the villain's identity ; both devices can be used effectively , and have been in recent years . kiss the girls doesn't work because there's no reason to care about who casanova is , what he does , or what he's going to do . director gary fleder never generates any tension or simmering menace , assuming that murky cinematography will do his work for him . perhaps he spends so little time on the tone because he has a hard enough time keeping the viewers focused on the basic facts of the plot . some of his narrative leaps are utterly baffling , sending audience members into a frenzy of muttered " who's he's " and " where are they now's . " to be fair to fleder , his directionless direction matches the directionless script with which he's working . the characters in kiss the girls are so thinly defined that it never seems to be about anything but plodding along until it's time to unmask casanova , yet even that major plot point is ineptly handled . screenwriter david klass doesn't bother to drop the faintest clue about who casanova might be , to the extent that he could have been picking a name out of a hat when casanova finally shows his face . worse still , klass doesn't bother to explore the villain's motives . shouldn't we care _why_ ? the only bright spots in kiss the girls , not surprisingly , are the performances by freeman and judd . even then , the script doesn't pull us into kate's emotions . it's hard to believe there was anything on the page which made these characters -- or this by-the-numbers story -- seem appealing , but freeman and judd took them on anyway . maybe these parts were the best they could find . maybe they suffered severe brain cramps at critical moments . i feel their pain . . . i had to _watch_ kiss the girls . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	screenplay : kenneth lonergan , based on characters created by jay ward . producers : jane rosenthal and robert deniro . director : des mcanuff . mpaa rating : pg ( cartoon violence , mild profanity ) running time : 88 minutes . the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle is _not_ a bloated big-screen vehicle that misses the point of its source material entirely . indeed , the opening five minutes represent a surprsingly clever brand of self-awareness , the kind that promises a brisk and satisfying stroll dose of cartoon nostalgia . from the outset , it's clear that this is jay ward's rocky and bullwinkle , complete with adult references , howlingly awful puns and still more howlingly awful puns . could this finally be the kind of live-action cartoon hollywood has been trying to make for years , only to botch the job over and over again ? believe me , i wanted to get giddy over the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle , which opens with protagonists rocket j . squirrel and bullwinkle j . moose . it's a funny idea , as is the idea of fearless leader's plot to entrap a hollywood producer ( janeane garofolo ) by offering the movie rights to " rocky and bullwinkle . " jay ward's cartoons were always a strangely deft mix of smart and silly , which is a fairly accurate description of the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle for a few hundred blissful seconds . then , inevitably and tragically , we leave the hand-drawn world for something considerably more drab . whatever twisted force convinces studio executives that the flintstones , 101 dalmatians or rocky and bullwinkle have something more to offer us with human actors is in need of immediate exorcising . there's something about an animated world , even a crudely-drawn animated world , that changes the rules ; ward could get away with groaners that would make you want to stuff a sock in a human mouth that uttered them . it certainly doesn't help that some of the human actors appear befuddled by the whole enterprise . rene russo waits for about half an hour before she gets to utter a word of dialogue , and still looks like she's waiting around for the rest of the film . as for newcomer piper perabo , what little comedic timing she may have isn't enhanced by acting opposite a pair of visual effects . deniro has fun with fearless leader , but it's not nearly enough . a self-deprecating gag referring to who framed roger rabbit ? doesn't change the fact that roger's concept was made for its format , and vice-versa . rocky and bullwinkle are cartoons in a human world simply because they could be . there are more than a few decent gags in playwright kenneth lonergan's script for rocky and bullwinkle -- the title of fearless leader's perfectly awful televsion series will set me to giggling for a few days -- and a lack of bombast that makes it infinitely easier to swallow . it's also a cheerful film that's perfectly suitable for kids , even as it offers tidbits for adults . there's just something inescapably , inherently wrong about turning these characters into cgi wise-crackers who interact with whoopi goldberg , john goodman and all the other cameo actors trotted out for our knowing amusement . the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle may be close to the best live-action film that could be made with these characters , and that's not saying much . call it a draw . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	the sum total of my direct familiarity with howard stern , including the 110 minutes of private parts , now stands at about 114 minutes . before seeing the film i had not read his book , had never heard his radio program , and seen him only in passing as a guest on t . v . talk shows or on his own e ! entertainment television program . i knew stern only indirectly , as a much-reviled icon of all things excessive and an object of adoration for devoted fan base , but i did not know enough about him to have a real opinion . i suspect that mine was the best possible point of entry for private parts , because i was expecting neither to hate it nor to revel in vulgarity . without the burden of preconceptions , i was free to laugh myself silly at a completely unexpected delight . it's hard to say who may be more surprised at private parts -- stern's fans or his detractors -- because it is funny in almost every possible way : at times goofy and low key , at times undeniably outrageous . the savvy edge of private parts really should not have been a surprise considering betty thomas was in the director's chair . thomas previously did sharp work with the brady bunch movie and hbo's talk show wars docu-comedy the late shift , proving herself adept with the worlds of media and pop culture , and she manages to put a surprising amount of energy into scenes of people sitting around talking into microphones . some of those scenes are simply brilliant , including the attempt by a flustered kenny ( a wonderfully slimy performance by paul giamatti ) to stop stern's broadcast of an off-color parody of " match game . " thomas' most impressive achievement , however , may be taking a group of radio personalities -- including stern's cohorts robin quivers and fred norris -- and putting them in situations where they could be comfortable . norris in particular has some hilarious moments , notably in a sequence in a b-movie actress's hotel room where he steals every scene hardly saying a word . it may not be a tremendous challenge to make an acting debut playing yourself , but stern makes the character he plays something you might never expect : charming . probably not . there's certainly a contradiction between stern's announcement to alison prior to the emergence of the now-recognizable stern persona that he's going to " be myself , " and the disingenuous suggestion that he's just playing a character on the air ; the truth probably exists somewhere in the middle . it does grow a bit tiresome hearing howard bemoan how misunderstood he is , and the film slows down considerably whenever he feels obliged once again to show us his sensitive side . private parts is much funnier when stern laughs at himself , or when he does the things that make other people laugh at him . still , it's no easy trick to please stern's fans while placating his enemies , and private parts serves up raunchiness and bad taste in a slick and snappy package . no matter how much of howard stern you've seen , this is a howard stern you haven't seen . 
1	raising arizona ( director/writer : joel coen ; screenwriter : ethan coen ; cinematographer : barry sonnenfeld ; cast : nicolas cage ( h . a very funny spoof about a colorful couple who must have a child and will try to get one by any means possible . through the use of a voiceover , emanating from h . i . as the narrator , the logical sequence of the story is followed . the film has its moments of serious pauses , as h . i . there are a few more complications along the way , as h . i . here the comedy was predictable chevy chase sort of material . the coen brothers know how to make a quirky film and they sure know how to write side-splitting dialogue . and if you are looking for something heavier , like a lesson to be gotten from all this or a searing comment on society , maybe you could even find that here also . though sometimes the comic situations and the way all the characters talk funny , seem forced , it still recovers from these lapses and bounces back with more off-the-wall situations once reserved for " keystone cop " comedies , like ferocious dogs chasing the hero , improbable victories for our improbable hero while fighting goliaths , and store clerks who have hidden vengeance inside them . if it is absurd comedy that makes you do cartwheels , something that is unique and dark enough to have some bite in it , then this film is funny enough to overcome some of its failing moments . 
0	inevitably , someone is going to ask me why i subjected myself to this experience , and the only excuse i can think of is that i'm trying to populate my " bottom 10 of 1997 " list . in any given year , the january-april period is traditionally a time when all sorts of bad movies are released . so far , 1997 has been a bonanza in that department . in just over four weeks , i've seen enough cinematic rubbish to overflow my mental recycling bin . and now , having sat through the pest , i may have already found my worst movie of the year . judging by the first weekend's abysmal box office total , his jump fell considerably short -- right into the inky pit of oblivion , in fact . by the time you read this review , it may be difficult to locate the movie in a theater - - not that you'd want to . the only reason this film might last beyond seven days is if there's a contractual obligation to be met . it's mind-boggling to consider that movies this bad are actually committed to film . the poor quality of the pest in almost every category -- humor , intelligence , creativity , and just plain entertainment value -- ranks it somewhere between a bad infomercial and a local cable newscast . rarely do i consider the act of seeing a movie to be a chore , but this kind of experience is the exception . at least i have the consolation of recognizing that watching something like this will enable me to appreciate even a mediocre motion picture . ( halfway through the pest , the idea of sneaking next door to watch the last half- hour of dante's peak was immensely appealing . ) the plot -- if it can be called that -- introduces us to pestario vargas , a . k . a . " pest " ( leguizamo ) . the central attraction of the pest is leguizamo ( last seen in baz luhrmann's romeo and juliet ) , but , despite a seemingly endless supply of energy , he manages to strut his way through the entire movie without generating one good laugh . he tries repeatedly , shamelessly pilfering gags from sources as diverse as peter sellers and the three stooges , yet somehow he manages to strip each of its humor . when inspector clouseau leaned on a globe , it was hilarious ; when pest does it , it's not even worth a snicker . for leguizamo , this is embarrassing . his " man of a thousand faces " routine ( accompanied by an equal number of unfunny accents ) is so irritating that it can engender an immediate and passionate dislike for the character . we're supposed to be astonished by the quickness and ease with which he sheds one personality and takes on another , but this uninspired grandstanding is a pale shadow of what more gifted comics ( like steve martin and robin williams ) are capable of . someone should inform the actor that goofy costumes and manic energy do not automatically equate to humor . this really isn't a coherent movie -- it's a bunch of juvenile skits strung together for a painfully long eighty-five minutes . there's no film making skill evident in the job accomplished by director paul miller . in truth , this film has to be seen to be believed . it's the kind of movie where every paying customer deserves to receive a handwritten apology from the producers . so , without further ado , let the pest take its rightful place in the motion picture hall of shame , right alongside such unforgettable recent classics as the mangler and adrenalin . 
2	it doesn't take long , however , for astonishment to turn to horror . nevertheless , the enjoyment of any movie is hardly predicated by a factual premise . the apparent realism of some of crichton's pseudo-science imbues jurassic park with a grounding that is acceptable in our high-tech world . the science may not be real , but it must sound good enough to allow a suspension of disbelief . in that , this film ( and the book that spawned it ) succeeds . of course , the special effects help immensely . they are so good , in fact , and the dinosaurs look so real , that i half expected to see " dinosaur trainer " during the closing credits . instead , however , honor should be heaped upon the creators of jurassic park's primary screen presences ( all apologies to the actors ) . all-in-all , the wizards at ilm have done an outstanding job , giving us by far the most impressive and believable monster movie of all time . nothing compares . would that the story is the equal of its execution . to begin with , crichton's book , while filled with fascinating ideas and entertaining moments , hardly holds together as a top-of-the-line adventure story . the ending is especially problematic , resulting in a forty-page denouement that drags slowly to an anticlimactic conclusion . despite numerous small changes and omissions , the movie jurassic park is very much faithful to its printed inspiration . perhaps michael crichton's involvement in the screenplay has something to do with this . the biggest weakness of the novel is characterization , and the same flaw is fully evident in the screen adaptation . there are a few exceptions . this is as much a tribute to the acting of sam neill and laura dern as to the writing . here , we get a sense of what's going on inside the old man's head . in the book , he's a mixed-up fanatic , but in the film , he's made into a sympathetic , albeit eccentric , figure . interestingly , some transposition has gone on between hammond's two grandchildren . also , here it's alexis , not tim , who's the computer whiz . the plot is little more than a cleverly jumbled-together batch of formulas . as i mentioned before , jurassic park is , reduced to its most basic level , a monster movie . thrown in for good measure is the human interest story--the growing relationship between self-confessed child-hater grant and his two youthful charges--but this part of the film worked least successfully for me . also , there isn't an effective ending . too much is left dangling , demanding that the lion's share of the resolution be confined to the imagination , but at least the movie avoids the book's plodding conclusion . nevertheless , i doubt that there are many who will go to jurassic park for its characters or story . rightly so , crowds will flock to the theaters screening this movie so they can ooh and aah , jump in their seats , and root for the overmatched humans against the big , bad dinosaurs . when it comes to adventure , jurassic park is a roller-coaster ride . with thrills and action in the tradition of , but not up to the level of , aliens and raiders of the lost ark ( another spielberg picture ) , this is an exciting and energetic film with a number of shocks but few letdowns . in the end , jurassic park succeeds because it's good entertainment--a fun night at the movies . unlike something of the ilk of cliffhanger , which also boasts a lot of action , there's some intelligence behind this picture . jurassic park isn't great art , nor is it classic cinema , but at least we don't feel like the producers and director are more interested in getting as much firepower and death on-screen as they can without giving a thought as to whether anyone in the audience has a brain . not having seen all of the summer's offerings ( the last action hero is still a week away ) , i can't say how jurassic park will rate overall , but i will admit that , in my opinion , this is the first big-budget film in a long time to live up to its pre-release reputation . sure , the movie isn't perfect , but it delivers--perhaps more than delivers--what the average viewer will expect from it . summer has long been known as the season for action/adventure films , and jurassic park falls firmly into that category . because of the nature and scope of this movie , i would encourage anyone with more than a passing interest to catch jurassic park in a movie theater . it will lose a lot on the smaller tv screen . without the grandeur of a stereophonic sound system and sizeable picture , much of this film's impact will dwindle away . the dinosaurs will still look real , but there will undoubtedly be some who , upon viewing jurassic park on video , will wonder what all the fuss is about . to this praise , let me add a final word of caution . while the violence in this film is not particularly graphic , it is apparent . people aren't shown getting gored or ripped apart , but the movie makes it perfectly clear what is happening . there are certainly a number of scary and potentially-disturbing moments which , while they add to the spice for older viewers , may be inappropriate for younger ones . 
1	there's a whole lotta gruntin' goin' on as actors in ape suits overact with a vengeance in tim burton's remake of planet of the apes , his battlefield earth . both films suffer from poor character development and dopey dialog . although planet of the apes is much better made -- burton is a great visual stylist -- if forced to sit through one of them again , i'd go for battlefield earth , at least it was campy fun . planet of the apes is dreary and overwrought . kris kristofferson , as daena's dad , plays one of the script's many clich ? d characters . although most of the apes look and act alike , it is tim roth , as general thade , who is given the key role of the main villain . the apes run around saying things like , " how many times do i have to tell you to wear gloves when you handle humans ? " when they're not spouting their ridiculous lines , they fight like a bunch of wild animals . in the big battle scenes , burton finally gets it right . these are great moments worthy of a master of the visual . but most of the movie is one silly scene after another . the original was fun , but the remake is dreary , violent and takes forever to get to the brief last act , the only successful part of the remake . the movie does contain one comedic gem . " one thing you don't want in your house is a human teenager . " it is rated pg-13 for some sequences of action/violence and would be acceptable for kids around 10 or 11 and up , depending on how well they can handle violent , frightening images . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it * * * . he thought it was awesome , realistic and funny , but he was bothered by some of the story's logic . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	most of the time , avid moviegoers search out the showing of the director's cuts of movies . writer and director terrence malick's the thin red line , based on the james jones novel , will have many wishing in vain for a vastly trimmed down and focused studio cut of the picture . at two and three quarter hours long , the movie meanders throughout but not nearly as bad as in the relatively pointless first and last acts . the movie might be a candidate for the record book in that it is perhaps the first movie that would be improved if viewers skipped the entire first and last half-hours , when little of consequence occurs . as the year's other movie about world war ii , the thin red line will naturally be compared to steven spielberg's masterpiece , saving private ryan . whereas spielberg's film is never less than breathtaking , malick's vision is much more ethereal and removed . people die horribly in both films , but malick's movie , with its montage of helmeted hollywood stars , knows how to create striking visuals but not compelling characters . deaths in the thin red line are likely to leave audiences dry-eyed and detached . nature , on the other hand , is so gorgeously presented that the film looks like a long episode from the nature channel . the camera looks long and lovingly at all of the flora and fauna . the biggest difference between the two movies is that saving private ryan has a plot . the thin red line contents itself with showing some of the fighting at the battle of guadalcanal and doesn't feel the need for any structure . the actors are hard to recognize under all the grime of war , but from the credits it is obvious that any man with hollywood connections tried to get himself a part . cameos by john travolta and george clooney bracket the movie at the beginning and end . most notable perhaps are sean penn as 1st sgt . penn's performance is as beautifully understated as nolte's excellent work is purposely over the top . in the supporting cast , john cusack does a nice turn as capt . john gaff . some of these are moving , but too often they end up sounding trite and false . even if it drags frequently , the movie does illustrate the horrors of war . the film asks the quintessential anti-war question of " why ? " but provides few hints at the answers . the thin red line runs needlessly long at 2 : 46 . it is rated r for wartime violence and gore and would be fine for teenagers . 
2	this film offers a literate script and is sensitively directed , it's a brilliant debut as a director for playwright kenneth lonergan ( co-scripted " analyze this ! " ) . besides writing the screenplay and directing it , he also has a minor part in the film as a religious counselor . it is so well-conceived a work that it never feels stagy , as many other films of this type tend to be . the film was a co-winner of this year's sundance grand jury prize and recipient of the waldo salt screenwriting award . the siblings have different personalities and have gone down different roads , and even though there is a strong bond between them , what this restaurant meeting highlights is how different they also are , as this scene brilliantly sets the tense tone for the remainder of the film . the sheer beauty in the film is in the natural bonding that develops between the curiously bright but lonely rudy and the irresponsible terry . the bad decisions terry makes are not selfish ones , but are the one's he makes because he means well but doesn't always know how to do the right thing . sammy and rudy touch something about themselves in terry's short summertime visit , something they wouldn't have touched that was so real without terry being there as a catalyst for change . this subtle drama is satisfying in almost every respect , but mainly as a realistic presentation of working-class characters who are struggling with the mundane problems of everyday existence . this is a superbly acted and subtle work , whose only flaws are in the unbelievable romance between boss and worker and the artificial lovemaking depicted between sammy and her townie boyfriend , both of which had no ring of truth to it . but , otherwise , this is one of the best films of 2000 , and indie type of art film with an intensity and a strong sense of realistic dramatics that brings out the complex emotional problems of the main characters . 
0	this poster provides an apt metaphor to this meaningless pseudo-expose of the plight of immigrant workers . jeremie renier plays the central character , igor , the fifteen-year-old from the poster . expressionless until almost the end , his long repressed emotions burst through briefly and as falsely as the rest of his otherwise stoic performance . he has such little passion that he almost lacks any humanity . assita ouedraogo , who expresses most of the show's emotions , confines these to outbursts of ranting and raving . this pretentious film , dripping with pathos and big messages , is the overly serious type most critics love . with his unsteady handheld camera alain marcoen films it in a blur of pans , extreme close-ups , backs of people's heads and all the artistically gritty shots possible . marie-helene dozo's choppy editing also serves to make the viewer feel unwelcome . although the attempt is for a film with a documentary feel , the result is amateurish and uneven . written and directed by the brothers jean-pierre and luc dardenne , it was a big hit at cannes , if one believes the press kit . that does not mean the directors have produced a compelling narrative . la promesse wants to be gut-wrenching and inviting , but actually is cold and uninvolving . it is in french with english subtitles . although unrated , its little violence and profanity would probably get it a pg-13 , but this is a mature movie , appropriate only for teenagers and older . i found little in the show that felt honest so i give it thumbs down and * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	fantasies that the whole family can enjoy are few and far between . studios executives generally look for kids' shows with minimum intelligence and maximum slapstick humor . the result is that these films are either major silly in an attempt to play down to the little tykes or they are full of gross bathroom humor thinking that is the only type that will keep the attention of the teens and subteens . it is a delight for all ages , and miracle of miracles , it does this without any crude jokes or anything offensive . he rationalizes that new zealand is far away , to which she grumbles , " that's a lame excuse . " so far the show is nothing more than your formulaic despondent adolescent flick . one of the attractions of the show for parents is it provides good role models for their children . from his recent 2 days in the valley to his best performance ever in gettysburg , he adds something special to the roles he plays . here his relentless approach is both exhausting and inspiring to watch . her every motion is graceful , and when she is one with the geese , it becomes hard not to cry for reasons having to do with nothing more than the love of life that she radiates . i gave you silly putty once for christmas . you ate it . " besides the fantasy aspect there are two compelling reasons to see the show . you will soon lose count of the many precious scenes in the picture , but let me cover a few lovely ones that brought me joy and mirth . the scenes of the geese waddling behind amy had the entire audience smiling and was mentioned as a favorite by the kids that accompanied us to the picture . the most breathtaking scene and the one most likely to engender tears was the sheer majesty of the scene where amy's minions follow her on her first big flight . the cinematography by caleb deschanel ( the natural , the right stuff , and the black stallion ) is the key underpinning to the film's success . in fly away home he uses a lot of shadow work to accentuate the warm browns and earth tones of his color palette . his aerial shots are certainly the most spectacular . that crazy little plane with the geese flying behind filmed against the clouds and the sunset is a marvelous sight to behold . taken as a fantasy , the film makes perfect sense . don't ruin it for yourself by over analyzing it . this was my son's favorite line . better not to promise anything . " director carroll ballard ( the black stallion and never cry wolf ) has an imaginative and deft touch . why ballard has only made five films in seventeen years is a mystery to me . i do have two quibbles with the movie . first , why do we have the scene where the uncle gives amy a nose ring which she then wears for the rest of the picture . if this was a film about generation xers , i would understand , but this little fourteen year old is the epitome of sweetness and innocence . the nose ring is just out of character . second , why did we need the cliched subplot where the environmentalists are shown confronting evil capitalists , or is that an oxymoron in movies , who are raping nature . kids' movies uniformly show environment issues as totally one sided . that these kids live in houses made of lumber , drive cars powered by gasoline , and generally do lots of things where environmental tradeoffs are made every day is never discussed . just mention the word environment and you have trumped any possible argument . it is rated pg for three mild cuss words and a very subtlety handled car crash . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the film would be fine for kids of absolutely any age , but should delight adults as well . i loved the show and think you will too so i recommend it and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	there is a movement afoot in the movie business to restore some of the great classic films so that this generation can see them afresh . some of the work like that done on the umbrellas of cherbourg allows the movie to be better even than that seen by even the original movie audience . so it is with the restoration of alfred hitchcock's 1958 masterpiece vertigo . working with some of the original master tapes , the restorers have given the film a digital stereo sound track . hearing bernard herrmann's music conducted by that great master muir mathieson makes the effort worthwhile . his haunting melodies are quite dramatic with the horns using their lowest notes . that the restorers also give us a cleaned up print and vastly improved color rendition is a bonus . restoration is a difficult process depending on many factors . here the result is less than perfect , which is not meant as a criticism . the interior sequences are bursting with rich and highly textured colors , but the exterior ones still seem a bit washed out . there are a couple of scenes where the print gets too dark and where the color matching is off . on the whole , however , the restoration works , and it is a joy to see this classic in its full glory . this feeling of acrophobia or vertigo is nothing more than a plot device . it provides the glue that holds the mystery of the story together . what makes the film so compelling are the characters swept up in the vertigo of the mystery . bel geddes is easily the most likable actor in the story . midge's costumes by the great edith head and the make-up by wally westmore give her the image of a good looking nerd . she has attractive but overly conspicuous glasses , and clothes that are all too sensible . if you love san francisco as much as i do , and especially if you live near it as i do , the movie provides more gorgeous san francisco settings for you to savor than any other movie . period . it was an awful film , but as i sat watching the expensive and slow minutia of a film shoot , i keep reflecting back to hitchcock's work there over three decades earlier and in the same spot outside . the camera work by robert burks is a masterful blend of wide-angle zooms to create the vertigo effect in the audience and of a traditional and panoramic approach . the automobile's role in movies has changed dramatically . alfred hitchcock is the king of the mysteries , which is not to say that his are without logical flaws . now that you ask , yes , hitchcock does his standard quick walk through one of the scenes . this " where's waldo " is a favorite of hitchcock fans like myself , and i certainly will give you no hints when this occurs . novak gives a wooden performance in the first half , but is quite intriguing in the second when she comes back to life as judy barton . stewart has not given a bad performance in his life . his acting as an obsessed man in vertigo is good , but not his best . just a couple of examples . ultimately what makes vertigo work so well is the direction by the great master and the stunning music and visuals . my main criticism of the film is that the editing by george tomasini is too slow . the film would have been more effective if more tightly focused and about fifteen more minutes had been left on the cutting room floor . the ending of the show is perfect and shocking if you have never seen it before . vertigo remains a classic bit of cinema that is worth seeing again . i would love to see some local theater do an alfred hitchcock festival . hint . hint . vertigo runs 2 : 08 . it is not rated but would be pg today due solely to the falling scenes . there is no sex , nudity , or bad language . the film will probably only interest kids say ten and up , but would be acceptable kids a little younger . i strongly recommend you check out the restoration now on the big screen as it was meant to be seen and heard . i give the film * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	i had an empty feeling seeing this film from its dripping blood onset , which was really the drippings from a raspberry sauce being poured over a fancy poultry dish , to its ambiguous ending ( where it is suggested that all the killings are in the psycho's head ) , and by the time the trick finale comes about , my empty feeling is just as prevalent as when i was bombarded by all the lists of toiletries the psycho prefers , his fancy squid ravioli with lemongrass sauce and arugula caesar salads in those upscale restaurants , and all the butchery that took place during the course of telling this president reagan era fable about yuppie greed , a slight variation on wall street's- " greed is good message . " i felt i was tricked once too often in this film , that with all its intended satire , it still ends up being a rather tasteless film that basically had not much of a point to it . this is , to say the very least , a disturbing film , even if it trimmed down on the novel's savagery and that the grisly killings take place mostly offscreen . it is a film about someone who is only human through his vices . while the film tries desperately to catch something about the psycho that an audience could sympathize with besides his good looks , but what results is that he can't be put together to look like a real person . and that is what becomes the main problem for the film , it is both creepy and sickly funny , but it offers no insights into a serial killer's mind-set that hasn't been said before . despite the film's glitzy photography , all the beautiful men in it , its various techniques used to make this a thought-provoking film , all fail to convince me that when all is said-and-done , this is not a sensationalized film , reveling in the subject's sickness and need for pornography and violence and consumerism . this is a superficial psychological comparison , and though it might sound good saying the two are alike , if you take the time to think about what is being said , it becomes easy to see that there are just as many similarities as differences between the two groups . the only other thing that i remember from the detective's role , is that dafoe has a deep , rich voice , as his part was miniscule and not very well thought out . the men in his life , all colleagues and look alikes , seem to be dressed-up as gentlemen but underneath that veneer , they are neanderthals . in one successful scene , that is an amusing satire on status among the corporate-types , his colleagues compare their business cards as to the texture of the paper and the quality of the printing . but the film's drawback , is that it is only about a general person and not about an individual , despite bale's tour-de-force performance and the aims of the director to get more out of the film than the book got . it still has an unpleasant subject matter to deal with and is only successful in making passing comments about a way of life that is easy to ridicule- the " me " generation . i might have liked the film better , if it had the balls to stick with its serial killer story , as difficult a task as that may have been , which is the heart of the story anyway , instead of yielding to so-called good-taste and accepting a lame hollywood cop-out ending ( which probably was a business decision more than an artistic one , since the film will now at least bring in some profit ) . the film left me with an empty feeling , by implying the psycho is still a psycho , even if the killings are not real . i certainly don't think music or books about serial killers makes them serial killers or do their repressed thoughts . i believe they are that way because they are driven by what's inside them that is uncontrollable and all that could be done in a film that is not made just for entertainment or exploitation , is to try and see if we can understand them a little better . i'm not sure if i can say that this film accomplished that and i'm not sure if i felt wholly entertained by the film , though the film was to its credit was not an exploitive one . yet , an empty feeling is what lingers , even long after i saw the film and try to recall it . other than the film looking good , being titillating in spots , being competently put together and well-acted , i don't think there is much else to say about it that is thought-provoking . 
1	screenplay : david koepp and steven koepp . director : ron howard . after establishing himself with gentle mass-market fantasies and taking a break for an overstuffed comedy , this man got the bug to be taken seriously as a director ; the results tended to be as notable for their excesses as their successes . sound like i'm describing steven spielberg ? not surprising . ron howard's career as a director has often seemed too consciously patterned after spielberg's ( although there are clearly worse models ) , and has represented much that is best and worst about his much more successful colleague's work . the paper is one of these films . it's a bit too busy and precocious for its own good , but still has enough of a charming throwback quality that i was willing to forgive many of its flaws . the paper is delivered with an energy that matches the barely controlled chaos of the newsroom , and that energy is nearly enough to sell the film all by itself . the go-go pacing echoes newspaper films of past decades , the same films the current the hudsucker proxy parodies . indeed , while there is a decidedly 90's spin to the proceedings ( no film of the 40's would ask if its hero were spending too little time with his wife ) , the paper still features such standbys as the gruff editor , the wet-behind-the-ears reporter ( here a photographer ) , and an ethical dilemma . there is nothing daringly original about the way the paper serves up these elements , but the setting itself is so lively and the cast generally so engaging that the lack of originality doesn't assault you . keaton , in his third collaboration with howard , delivers a solid protagonist even though the role demands little of his considerable talents . less successful are close and duvall , but that certainly isn't the fault of the two talented actors . as a result , it seems like we're getting snippets from an entirely different movie . bernie's story is just filling up minutes . it's too bad , because a resolution connected to bernie's family troubles would have been much more effective than the one we get . that resolution includes a bar scene which suffers from extremely sloppy editing leading into not one but two medical crises . it seems like a ron howard film isn't complete without someone dying or nearly dying , as though he doesn't trust any conclusion not based on the biggest possible emotion . what had been a taut , energetic film about priorities and the thrill of reporting bogs down seriously in the final fifteen minutes . it's not quite enough to sabotage the paper's strengths completely , but it does show once again that ron howard the " serious director " too often equates serious with saccharine . 
2	in contemporary popular art , there's a very fine line between sheer brilliance and head-smacking pretentiousness . it's a line most visionary film directors flirt with on a regular basis , to the point of tying said line into the occasional sheepshank knots . it almost seems as though , for all their periodic misfires , film-makers like david lynch , terry gilliam and stanley kubrick have no choice but to take you places no one else can or will take you . you suspect that even though the film you are watching may not be great , the creative mind behind it could be . darren aronofsky's debut feature pi may not be a work of pure originality -- the echoes of lynch's eraserhead are too distinct -- but i can virtually guarantee you won't see anything else like it this year . at its core , pi is an icarus fable of a man reaching for knowledge beyond his capacity to handle it , with a side order of cyber-era isolation cautionary tale . aronofsky uses voice-over narration effectively to get us inside max's seizure-wracked head ( with superb musical assistance from clint mansell of pop will eat itself ) , showing us the world as an actualized paranoid fantasy viewed through a self-imposed cage of computers . pi might have been a frighteningly engrossing character study if only sean gullette had been able to match the intensity of the material . his steven wright-as-computer geek demeanor suggests a typical socially-challenged nerd more often than a man spinning into madness ; though he didn't need to bug out his eyes and foam at the mouth , he did need to place max close enough to the edge for us to see the bottom from there . gullette's competent but distant performance lowers the stakes of pi's twisted conspiracy theoretics . yes , he does stretch too hard at times to achieve his lynchian vibe -- grainy black-and-white photography , a mysterious sticky substance , blinding flashes of light and a brain covered with ants do not necessarily a profound statement make . but who else would construct a psychological thriller around large number theory , wall street and the kaballah ? who else would create visuals as distinct as max's techno-organic apartment , or make an audience squirm so violently at the do-not-try-this-at-home use of a certain power tool ? and who else has demonstrated the cinematic instincts to turn a scene of a man writing down numbers into something more tension-packed than a dozen hollywood chase scenes . the most obvious antecedent may be lynch , but even lynch's hypnotic images have rarely been this kinetic . though aronofsky may have been limited by finances , available talent or technical constraints , he has created a work which leaves you hungry for what he could do next . pi is the creation of that one film-maker in a hundred who seems unlikely to make movies by the numbers . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	of all the different kinds of movies , love stories are likely to provoke the widest variety of reaction , since personal preference is such a crucial element in evaluating these films . it's far easier to agree on what constitutes a solid drama or enjoyable comedy than an effective romance . scenes which melt some hearts will churn the stomachs of others . a walk in the clouds , director alfonso arau's followup to like water for chocolate , is such a picture . there are moments when this movie is absolutely magical , but the ending lays it on much too thick . for more than an hour , a walk in the clouds is thoroughly enchanting . with spectacular visuals and a script laced with little romantic touches , the first seventy-five minutes weave a spell that will dissipate the cynicism of even the grumpiest viewer . but then the melodrama , which is initially light and innocuous , asserts its presence and draws the film into a ponderously silly climax . even the most beautifully-realized love story can't camouflage this kind of flaw . the match which seemed so right when it happened turns out to be a horrible mistake . with this , his first big-budget , english language picture , arau outlines a classic case of cultural and generational conflict . somehow , however , a similar message came across more clearly in sandra bullock's while you were sleeping . newcomer aitana sanchez-gijon has a luminance that lights up the screen . as for reeves , he admittedly does a more credible job here than in most of his other work , but , for the most part , that's barely adequate . as was true of like water for chocolate , a walk in the clouds has an ethereal feel . shots of the vineyard , enhanced by post-production visual effects , are breathtaking . it is sensual , erotic , and joyous . the most disconcerting thing about a walk in the clouds' tendency towards overt melodrama is that almost all of it is totally unnecessary . minor script changes could have eliminated huge chunks of this , leaving behind an uplifting love story . even as it is , however , there's still something special about the motion picture . i just wish the final half- hour hadn't been such a bloated disappointment . 
0	two if by sea is a putative comedy reminsent of the smokey and the bandit series . it was released without previews to most critics which is usually a sign that the studio thinks their movie is in trouble . other than being poorly written ( by first time writer denis leary ) , sloppily directed ( bill bennett ) , and overacted by every member of the cast , it does have a few redeming features like picturesque views of nova scotia . when the script is not getting on your nerves and the slured , mumbled bostonian accent so thick that you need subtitles is not driving you crazy , you at least get to relive slapstick comedy scenes from other bad movies . just to make sure you know they are trying to mimic other movies , one character says to other " who do you think you are , burt reynolds ? " in one of many derivative scenes , she throws their map out the window . i found this slapstick attempt at humor to be a total failure since the acting was so overboard . two minutes into the movie and the movie is such a stinker that it begins to reek . within fifteen minutes , i was ready to leave . my wife wanted to stay to see if it picked up ; it didn't . i confess that i actually saw all of this piece of drivel . okay , so i did go to the lobby once for five minutes to escape . the movie does have a plot . frank steals a painting which turns out to be more valuable than expected . if you care , you can guess everything that will happen after this . it takes many people to craft a movie this bad , but prime credit has to go to denis leary ( from the ref ) who not only gave a pathic acting performance but came up with a script full of inanities . his script has frank o'brien saying , " people like us are born in little houses and die in little houses , and we've got to find happiness somewhere in between . " inserted into the middle of a bad comedy , this line is totally out of place and does not work at all and even if it did , leary is incapable of delivering it in a believable fashion . there is not a character in the show that is realistic and certainly none you care about . in theory there are two romances in two if by sea . in reality there is no chemistry between anyone . bullock , whom i loved in speed and liked in the net , is given poor direction and manages to be incomprehensible and uninteresting . kotto seems to be suffering from gas in most of the movie . he just stands around and frowns in most scenes while saying little . the worst performance of the lot is robson's . whenever beano and his band of incompitent small time crooks get on the screen , you want to shut your eyes . i am amazed to report that some people in my audience actually laughed at some of this stuff . it is incorrectly rated r . there is no nudity , sex , or violence . the language is mildly bad in a few scenes . i would have rated it pg-13 and with the deletion of a couple of words , it could have been pg . on the other hand , i strongly recommend that you and your kids stay as far away from this movie as possible . i do give it one half of a star , but only because it did not quite crack the threshold of pain , i reserve for zero star movies . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	as an inviting enigma , dean gives a deceptively seductive performance . he almost hypnotizes the audience with his smooth , blank slate of a face . dr . mumford , a world-class listener , possesses such subdued charm that people are compelled to tell him their most hidden secrets , something it's obvious the doc must have a few of himself . in a story that isn't in any hurry to get anywhere , the movie charms with its cornucopia of well-written and superlatively acted characters . one of the film's delights is that you haven't any idea where it is headed . its one mystery is fairly obvious . full of wry humor that produces a host of small laughs and constant grins , the script is perhaps its biggest star . ( " the only problem i had with degenerate , self-destructive behavior is that i couldn't get enough of it . " ) the movie has an almost magical aspect to it that you can't quite put your finger on . lit by cinematographer ericson core to look like a norman rockwell painting , the town of mumford manages to look appealing even though it conceals a hotbed of neuroses . davis gives a convincing performance as someone so tired that she can barely move . " most people do . " " i'd better not , " she replies as if exhausted by speaking . " i'd fall right asleep . besides , it's probably too early for me to start sleeping with you . " ( " it's shocking ! " you heard it here first . " ) in a movie filled with gems , it's hard to pick out a favorite . it is rated r for sex-related images , language and drug content . it is a good-spirited film that would be fine for teenagers . 
2	cast : roger moore , barbara bach , curt jurgens , richard kiel , caroline munro director : lewis gilbert producers : albert broccoli screenplay : richard maibaum and christopher wood based on characters created by ian flemin cinematography : claude renoir music : marvin hamlisch u . s . distributor : united artists pictures of roger moore's seven james bond pictures , the spy who loved me stands out as the best . stripped of the extreme silliness of the man with the golden gun and packed with style , action , and wit , the spy who loved me ranks alongside the connery bonds as a memorable cinematic representation of ian fleming's superspy ( although the screenplay is * not * based on fleming's novel of the same title ) . this version of 007 is suave , sophisticated , and only a little flat . he's good with wry humor and one-liners , and seems reasonably capable as a " man of action . " as usual , bond's chief nemesis is a megalomaniac . so massive and powerful is jaws that there's little bond can do against him physically . he's the perfect supervillain , and it's great fun to see how 007 survives confrontations with the steel-toothed giant . barbara bach proves to be a pleasant addition to the cast as the latest " bond girl . " there also seems to be slightly more tenderness in this relationship than is typical for her majesty's most promiscuous agent . . . but only a little . her part is actually rather small--she shows up , looks good , utters a few lines of dialogue , then tries to kill 007 . jurgens is adequate as the villain . there's nothing remarkable about his performance except that he remains more restrained than the average bond madman . the single most impressive moment in the spy who loved me comes in the pre-credits sequence . it's the perfect lead-in to carly simon's rendition of " nobody does it better " , possibly the best-known of all the bond themes . the rest of the film's action , directed by lewis gilbert ( you only live twice ) , is as impressively staged . the spy who loved me has no shortage of gadgets . these include noxious cigarettes , ski pole projectiles , and , most impressive of all , a lotus esprit that swims rather than sinks . but such toys are only part of 007's appeal . bond films attract audiences because they're solid fun--light , uncomplicated entertainment that requires no more from a viewer than that he or she sits back and enjoys . despite the recycled plot , the spy who loved me deserves its popularity as one of bond's most engaging outings . even those who swore off the films with sean connery's departure might consider checking this one out . 
2	what's a spy to do if he can't even land a decent assignment ? not exactly a spy story or a comedy , although it has aspects of both , the movie is basically a character study . rush , who has a tendency to overachieve with his acting , is decidedly reserved this time . although andy , like bond , sleeps with as many women as possible and speaks fluent double entendre , he is as slimy and oily as bond is slick and debonair . it is a wonderful against type performance by brosnan and the best argument for seeing the movie . with a quiet intensity , curtis manages to dominate scenes that others should own . and in an age in which actors have no problem with massive violence but carefully write no-nudity clauses into their contracts , curtis has a good body and is more than happy to flaunt it . she has some simple but erotically charged scenes with brosnan . this incident has more genuine sexuality than a dozen canonical scenes of humping actors on squeaking bed frames . the tailor of panama is a small movie that ages well . the more you think about it ; the more you appreciate its subtle charms . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language and some violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	gosh , wasn't the holocaust a hoot ? welcome back to a revisionist yesteryear at the movies as , once again , we see how funny those old nazis were . the idea of turning one of the most horrific tragedies of mankind into a comedy is an idea that has , at best , a highly limited appeal . life is beautiful , it would be argued by most although this reviewer still has some reservations , carried off making jewish concentration camps funny . jakob the liar , robin williams's recent piece of schmaltz , was an unqualified disaster using a similar theme . it is neither as spectacularly pretty as the former nor as spectacularly awful as the latter . humor comes in the form of people who faint from fright and other slapstick retreads . sometimes , although rarely , the laughter comes from the dialog . we learn , for example , that all one need do to speak proper german is talk yiddish but leave off the fun parts . as the story turns more serious in the second half , it is more successful . the only completely satisfying scenes in the picture , however , are the aerial shots from on high as the train cuts across lush fields of grain , accompanied by sweeping orchestral music . like chauncy gardner ( peter sellers ) in being there , the fool utters the most profound statements for the others to ponder . thinking about conundrums like these will help pass the time during the movie's many slow spots . it is rated r for some sexuality and nudity , including full frontal nudity of girls and women . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
0	" there are forces at work here that you couldn't possibly understand ! " no kidding ! and i thought stigmata was bad . unfortunately , this is one of the more subtle scenes in a movie that doesn't know when to stop . but we'll get to its excesses in a minute . suffice it to say that if members of the catholic church feel that they have to picket a movie , this is the one to go for , not dogma , which has been unjustly maligned . yes , this is a millennium film . think about it . ( for what could be done with a more intelligent approach , see the recent and wonderfully imaginative character study , don mckellar's last night , about the world's end . ) i will not tell you the intricacies of the plot so that you can laugh at it as i did . the only thing that makes the movie even partially bearable is the humor , most of it unintentional . in an intelligent but all too brief performance , kevin pollak plays jericho's sidekick , chicago . he also delivers most of the truly funny lines . " well , it's official , " chicago informs jericho . " i'm not sleeping again . " for all of its gore -- and there's lots of it -- the movie isn't the least bit frightening . it is , however , frequently gross and disgusting , not to mention sacrilegious and amoral . but , the movie tries to argue that " the devil made me do it . " its excesses , you see , aren't its fault . it's just trying to depict evil . along with the baby and the blood scene , the movie has other satanical delights . the devil is there too you see , and he made them do it . the cheesy dialog will have you shaking your head . ) moviegoers who count their enjoyment by the boom will be satisfied ; others will be disappointed and exhausted by it all . the film relentlessly beats you over the head with the material . only when it gets so ridiculous that it causes the audience to laugh out loud does it break the tedium . arnold , arnold , arnold , what were you thinking when you signed on to do this ? even if it has enough violence and gore to attract large audiences , you are better than this . " how do you expect to defeat me when you are but a man , and i am forever ? " the ending , of course , is never really in doubt , no matter how much bluster the devil manages . making audiences believe this will take a real miracle . it is rated r for intense violence and gore , a strong sex scene and language and would not be acceptable for those under 17 or 18 . 
1	director kevin hooks's fled is a fast action movie that appears to be about two convicts on the lam , but is actually a highly contrived and ridiculous conspiracy on top of conspiracy plot . this is one of the those movies that requires you to check your brain in the lobby . don't even try to count the implausibilities in preston whitmore's script . what saves the film is two fine pieces of acting by its stars , laurence fishburne as piper and stephen baldwin as luke dodge plus the excellent performance by wil patton as the southern good old boy and smartest cop of all matthew gibson . fled is needlessly violent as well , but all of this notwithstanding , i liked the show as did the audience . a fast paced bit of entertainment that will make you laugh , sometimes when you are not supposed to , and will pump up your adrenaline . it seems there are big conspiracies brewing , and schiller , among others , is involved . the show is quite funny . one small thing that is fun is that when they get in a jam , one will say to the other , " didn't you see " and then name some movie title as if all knowledge is found in some movie . among movies so referenced were : the godfather , deliverance , the fugitive , and shaft . my favorite character is the wise but unassuming officer gibson , whose accent is so thick you could cut it with a knife . gibson advises schiller , " i think you are just spitting in the wind , and you know what they say about spitting in the wind . it may blow back in your face . " the chemistry between the two leads is quite good . i think laurence fishburne is a great talent , and it showed here . without him , i don't think they would of had a show , but they do have him and so for me it worked . which scene did the audience like the least ? it is so overdone and with such cliches , i . e . , done in front of a roaring fire , that they were laughing at it , and it is not supposed to be funny . let me not dwell on this implausibility thing , and rather than get into the intricate conspiracy maze , let me give two small examples . also , why is all the key data stored one little floppy and without any duplicate ? i could go on , but i will not . i was able to put my brain in neutral so perhaps you will be able to as well , and this stuff not bother you . fled runs a little over an hour and a half . it will certainly be an r for sex , nudity , and most of all gory violence of the type where many people die with large bullet holes and blood spurting everywhere . it would be probably be okay for teenagers if they are mature . i hated the story , but i had a good time , laughed some , and liked the acting , except for pathetic overacting by schiller and the whole cuban mafia crowd , so i am giving it a thumbs up and rating it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	screenplay : daniel myrick and eduardo sanchez . producers : gregg hale and robin cowie . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes , intense situations ) running time : 86 minutes . the last of the 34 films i screened at sundance this year was not merely the best film the festival had to offer . the blair witch project is a work of genre-redefining brilliance , a strong early candidate for the best film of 1999 , and one of the most unnerving psychological thrillers ever made . it works on the kind of primal level that will leave you shaking for hours afterwards . it's the kind of film for which festivals like this truly exist . the concept alone is ingenious enough to grab interest ( though not utterly unique ) : an on-screen caption at the beginning of the film announces that three college students disappeared in the black hills of maryland in 1994 while making a documentary film , and that only the footage they shot was ever found . the interviews are frequently quite funny -- including a mother whose toddler grows disturbed by the scary story she's telling -- while they also provide insight that the filmmakers really don't take the legend very seriously . writer/directors daniel myrick and eduardo sanchez don't just set up a scary story -- they set up the people to whom this scary story will happen . and folks , scary ain't even the half of it . the blair witch project is the kind of film that wreaks its havoc almost entirely in your head , just as the events in the film wreak havoc in the heads of the characters . the directors use darkness and sound with shudder-inducing effectiveness , never once resorting to cheap , trite tricks like people jumping into frame or blasts of dissonant music ( there is , in fact , no musical underscore of any kind ) . some viewers may be put off by the fact that the set-up guarantees a bad end for the protagonists , or incredulous regarding why they would continue to record their experiences . those elements might have troubled me had the blair witch project not established its characters so well that they mattered more than the situation in which they find themselves . all three of the largely-improvised performances are dead on -- i dare a viewer to find a moment when you can tell anyone is acting -- but heather donahue's work is emotionally shattering . the blair witch project works as a study of disintegrating humanity only because we feel the humanity of these three brash kids to begin with . you expect a good horror film to be terrifying . what makes this one great -- perhaps one of the best ever -- is that it's also heartbreaking . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	starring : nicolas cage , shirley maclaine . screenplay : hugh wilson and peter torokvei . director : hugh wilson . i mean no condescension when i say that guarding tess is the kind of movie that my grandparents would love . they see about a movie per year , if that , and when they do choose to plunk down their $7 . 00 a piece they tend to opt for something light and frothy , usually one of those comedies featuring two decent but strong-willed characters who spar but obviously care about each other . these films are always good for a few smiles , and are generally inoffensive . intellectually , i understand the appeal of such once- in-a-blue-moon-night-on-the-town entertainments , and some of them do give the character interaction zing . it's just two pleasant , well-acted characters with nothing to do . guarding tess owes every ounce of charm it displays to the very engaging lead performances of nicolas cage and shirley maclaine . cage often seems to have only two gears on screen--frantic and manic--but here he des a surprisingly restrained turn as the frustrated agent . he is appropriately humorless about a job doug takes very seriously , yet he doesn't go for wooden . maclaine , who seems to get every role in hollywood written for a woman over 50 , has mastered the flinty dame bit by now , while always managing to leave a bit of softness around the edges . tess is not a particular stretch for maclaine , but she never mails in a performance . the interaction between doug and tess in the film's first half hour is amusing in a low-key way , never degenerating into over-the-top theatrics . at almost every stage the relationship seems completely natural , and that relationship makes for some entertaining scenes . what torpedoes guarding tess is the sense that director and co-writer hugh wilson didn't really know what to do with these two characters . since wilson's greatest success has come on the small screen , it should come as no surprise that guarding tess feels a lot like a pilot for a series . the characters are established , but the plot is nearly non-existent . very quickly , guarding tess begins to repeat itself , with too many redundant scenes of doug and tess butting heads , tess winning and doug fuming . it's a film that just floats around like a hovercraft on a layer of niceness . then , when wilson finally seems to realize the need for a second plot point , he creates an utterly ridiculous subplot involving a kidnapping . i have this feeling the conclusion we see was not his first choice . there is a silly red herring involving tess's son which i suspect was not a red herring in some earlier incarnation , because the revelation of who the kidnappers are inspires a big " what ? " i also believe wilson might have considered a slightly darker resolution , but was concerned about ruining all the good will he had worked so hard to generate . the result is just grossly out of touch with the rest of the movie anyway . fluffy and inconsequential doesn't have to mean tedious . guarding tess might make a fine bargain matinee for someone seeking a chuckle or two . at least that's what i'd tell my grandparents . 
2	people will probably misinterpret the documentary out of the past as much as the controversial event which is at its center , which is irony enough . it would be even more ironic if they misinterpret it in exactly the same way : without any direct knowledge , because they are already convinced they know what it's about . such tends to be the case when you are dealing with the perpetually volatile subject of homosexuality . it happens even more frequently when the suggestion is proferred that gays and lesbians are human beings with much to contribute to the world . its purpose , according to peterson , was understanding -- understanding between gay students that they were not going through the difficult experience alone , understanding between gay and straight students that gays were not aliens to be feared or hated . that story alone would be compelling enough to make for a solid piece of documentary film-making . peterson emerges as a determined , remarkably mature young woman with a surprisingly wry sense of humor about the uproar she never meant to cause . it's fascinating and entertaining simply watching her calm determination in the face of parents who announce their concerns in board meetings that exposure to homosexuality will be a dangerous influence on impressionable teenagers . they desire nothing less than the invisibility of homosexuals , believing perhaps that if no one talks about them , they will simply go away . that widely-held societal belief drives even more fascinating secondary story in out of the past -- a series of biographical vignettes intertwined with kelli peterson's struggle . like many " talking head " documentaries , out of the past does have its slow patches , and not all the biographical sketches are uniformly enlightening . ultimately , however , the film does what it sets out to do : it places kelli peterson in a historical context , validating the legacy which she had been denied . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	starring : jessica lange , halle berry , david strathairn , samuel l . jackson , cuba gooding jr . , daisy eagan , marc john jefferies director : stephen gyllenhaal producers : howard w . koch jr . and naomi foner screenplay : naomi foner based on the novel by seth margolis cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : mark isham released by paramount pictures losing isaiah tries very hard to make its viewers cry--and succeeds . but the chance to shed a few tears is not all this thought-provoking and dramatically-solid motion picture offers . an emotionally charged issue is handled with balance and care . excepting circumstances , there are no villains here , and the case for each side is presented in a compelling manner . losing isaiah , while dealing with some of the same themes , approaches things from a vastly different angle . here , both sides are treated equitably--for the drama to work , this is a necessity . director stephen gyllenhaal manages to present the two perspectives without displaying obvious favoritism for either . much of losing isaiah is wrenching , and all of it is well-acted . here , jessica lange gives the kind of performance for which an oscar nomination is deserving ( unlike her over-the-top caricature in blue sky ) . halle berry is equally moving in a role that requires more range . david strathairn and samuel l . jackson , two actors who almost always impress , are solid in less- visible parts . newcomer marc john jefferies is amazingly believable and shows none of the awkwardness that often accompanies the debut of a child actor . the end of losing isaiah is something of a cheat , but the eventual resolution is neither badly handled nor overly-melodramatic . however , it isn't the final five minutes that display this movie's strength--it's the other one-hundred . numerous scenes stand out , but there is one image -- jackson and lange standing side-by-side under an overhang during a rainstorm--that summarizes everything about this film . there is virtually no dialogue ; it isn't needed . it's instances like this , which are scattered throughout , that give depth and poignancy to a story that daringly probes a volatile question for which there are no straightforward answers . 
1	it would be possible to write pages and pages comparing and contrasting the reality of bill clinton's 1992 presidential campaign with the fictional one of jack stanton , the candidate in primary colors . likewise , it would be equally possible to develop a lengthy piece about the similarities and differences between the movie and the best-selling novel upon which it is based . since more qualified individuals than i will be penning articles of this sort over the next few days and weeks , i feel confident that i can narrow the scope of this review ( mostly ) to the movie itself , and let others worry about the divisions between fact and fiction . of course , it's impossible not to note that many of the characters in the film bear a striking resemblance to certain counterparts in the clinton camp . equally noteworthy is the fact that the movie dopplegangers are portrayed more kindly their respective book incarnations . it's harsh , blistering , and possesses an edge that the film , a warmhearted comedy/drama , lacks . and , while the motion picture still makes some rather uncomfortable points about the sacrifices of virtue necessary to win an election , its approach is much gentler than that of the book , or , for that matter , another recent movie , wag the dog , or the documentary , the war room . there's merit in briefly running through the film's major characters and identifying their real-life counterparts , if only to satisfy the curiosity of those who have seen the picture and aren't sure . governor jack stanton , who is charisma personified , wins over voters as a result of his relaxed manner , apparent empathy with his audience , and refreshingly open approach . ( " i'm gonna do something really outrageous - - tell the truth , " he declares at one point . the irony of that statement , i'm sure , is not lost on anyone . ) not everything in primary colors is stripped from the historical account of clinton '92 . in addition , much of what transpires during the closing half-hour has little or no basis in fact . it's purely klein's invention , as filtered through elaine may's script . however , while the film is smart and perceptive in its take on american politics , it's dramatically weak . nichols frequently seems caught in a palpable quandary : is this a satire , a drama , or a cautionary tale ? because primary colors vacillates uncertainly between the three , it's not strong as any of them . there's also a question of whether nichols and may softened the book to avoid appearing too critical of the president . is primary colors an attack , a retreat , or an apology ? my biggest complaint about the film is the length . at 140 minutes , it's too long , with several sequences that border on becoming tedious . i also found burton's constant moral struggles to be more irksome than believable . maybe i'm just too cynical , but i have trouble accepting that someone that deep in the political process would be beset by so many doubts . humanizing a character is one thing , but making him too noble , especially in a movie that has a satirical basis , can be problematic . and , while the parallels between real individuals and fictional characters are interesting , they can't sustain a feature- length motion picture on their own . some of the problems inherent in adapting a book for the screen are evident as well . it's difficult to say where these elements were molded into their current form ( i . e . , in the screenwriting process or in the editing room ) , but , considering some of what survived in the final print , it makes for an uneven viewing experience . with one important exception , the performances are on-target . travolta is wonderful as the bill clintonesque stanton , with a southern accent , white hair , a pot belly , and a boatload of charisma . unfortunately , i wasn't impressed by adrian lester's work , and , since the movie is presented from his perspective , this is a serious drawback . lester frequently seems stiff , and his performance is occasionally forced . i was constantly aware that this is an actor playing a part , not a fully fleshed-out character . it will be interesting to see whether the fortuitous timing of this release boosts the box office numbers . while there's nothing in the film that relates specifically to the recent allegations surrounding the president's sex life , there are at least as many parallels as in wag the dog . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
0	one of the most obnoxious sci-fi films ever . it offers hollywood's silly response to the 1950s red scare sweeping the country and promoted by the mccarthy senate hearings looking for commies under every bed cover . to realize how dumb this cold war film is , try this summation of the plot on for size : can it be that the martians are signaling earth and that their leader is that actually uttering the very word of god ? warning : spoilers are throughout review . this is one of those really bad propaganda films that has no entertainment value , as it shows how paranoic this country can be and how it can use religion at the drop of a radio signal to promote materialism and christianity as a superior way of life than communism . this one might be the strangest and most twisted red menace films of all time . the last message heard from mars is an abbreviated one ( thank god ) : " ye have done well my good . . . " then there is just silence . don't ask me to explain how all of a sudden ninety percent of the world workforce would lose their jobs and there would be a run on the banks because of this message . but that's exactly what this filmmaker is asking us to believe . but just when things look bleak for the free world , a spiritual message comes delivered on a different frequency . it's christ's " sermon on the mount . " this red scare movie is made for zombies from another planet , or witch hunters who want to justify how their dirty work is necessary . it's a classic in a negative sense , a must see for those who can't believe how a bad film can really be bad . 
2	if you want big emotions , you want steven spielberg ; if it's understated sentimentality you're looking for , you call tony bill . from 1980's my bodyguard through the recent untamed heart , bill has demonstrated a skill with emotional stories that steer clear of maudlin excess . as one who enjoys feeling without feeling manipulated , i find that a pretty neat trick . a home of our own is an extremely appealing low-key family drama , driven by kathy bates' rock-solid lead performance , which adds to bill's growing resume of restrained character pieces . a home of our own plays a lot like an impoverished " wonder years , " with its 1960s setting and wry retrospective narration , but unlike that series the voice-over is rarely intrusive and doesn't draw the focus away from frances . bates is near perfect , a presence that commands respect ; one is hard-pressed to think of another actor who would be as convincing as a sane mother of six . her slightly weathered features convey years of struggle , but she maintains an earthy good humor and a relentless optimism borne of necessity . that kathy bates gives a great performance can't be considered much of a surprise . what is a pleasant surprise is a home of our own's realistic portrayal of family life in hardship . with the exception of edward furlong , the lacey children are played by first-time actors , and they are quite natural . scenes are filled with petty squabbles , but beneath them all is a kind of solidarity which never seems mock-heroic . there is a level of love and mutual respect in the interaction which frankly threw me . it's not often that a movie does an american family this kind of justice . like most of tony bill's work , a home of our own is best when it's quietly observant . young actors tend to get into a lot of trouble when they're asked to yell , or to deliver lines like , " you care more about the house than you do about us , " and this is no exception . the film also trips when it spends too much time away from kathy bates , such as a tacked-on sequence involving furlong's first date . i was a bit disappointed in the inspirational finale , which loses some of the integrity points that home had accrued . i wish the filmmakers had done less with furlong's character and more with his , the one through whom we can see the family's struggle with somewhat objective eyes . " wholesome " is a word that usually inspires derision , but i couldn't be more complimentary when i say that a home of our own is a wholesome , subtly emotional film , well-acted and skillfully directed . 
0	although davis is talented , harlin has exactly one decent film to his name , die hard 2 , and a string of ridiculous ones , including such turkeys as nightmare on elm street 4 and the adventures of ford fairlane . if you like big budget , rock 'em , sock 'em action films and don't mind repetition , then perhaps the long kiss goodnight will appeal to you . if you saw chain reaction this year and liked it , you will get to relive all of the explosions and fights . davis gets to put on a pair of convenient ice skates to outrun a speeding car , but other than that , you've seen all of the stunts before . harlin does manage to spend all of his backers' money in one explosion after another proving that his profligate excesses are rarely rivaled . oh well , the dream of every producer is that escapism like this will sell lots of tickets and popcorn . whew . spradlin has little acting range , but his demeanor is so slimy that he is quite effective . unless you need an action fix , there are only two reasons to see the long kiss goodnight . first , there is good chemistry between davis and jackson , who both have a lot of fun making the picture . second , the dialog by shane black has several funny lines . most of the humorous lines are unprintable forms of double-entendre . the long kiss goodnight runs a full 2 : 00 . by half way through , i got tired of seeing yet another blast and wished editor william goldenberg had exercised more control . the film is rated r for excessive violence too often reminiscent of a horror flick and constant bad language used mainly to shock . the film has no sex or nudity . teenagers used to a diet of heavy movie violence will probably like the film , but i don't see why anyone would bother . the long kiss goodnight gets a thumbs down from me and a * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	the plot of money for nothing was interesting . sounds pretty unrealistic right ? well , read on . the fascination is joey's stupidity and the fact that it was a true story . yes , truth is stranger than fiction as they say . that this story is true is the hook that kept us watching . the problem with money for nothing isn't the script or the plot , it is that the acting by cusack , debi mazar , michael madsen , and benicio del toro and the directing by ramon menendez which was all plodding . i give it 2 stars because the story was interesting enough even if the movie wasn't very good . i do not recommend you see it . oh well , it could have been worse . we could have stayed to see all of the disgusting undercover blues . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : september 29 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	" i'm going to shake the dust of this crummy little town off my feet . i'm going to see the world then i'm going to build things . " in the great frank capra's classic 1946 movie it's a wonderful life , george will never get to follow any of these dreams . no matter how bad he wants something , he is so selfless that he will give up everything to help his fellowman . none of this is ever to be for george , but by the show's conclusion george will come to realize what a wonderful life he has anyway . set mainly in a cold and snowy environment and with the show's conclusion at christmas eve , it's a wonderful life is a great film for the holidays . although sometimes bordering on the maudlin , it remains a beautifully uplifting story and a sweet little comedy as well . george's buildings and loan provides low cost loans that the townsfolk use to become home owners rather than renters . although potter is already " so rich he can never spend it all , " he wants more . james stewart's academy award nominated performance is what most people remember from the movie , but there is so much more . the lighting shines on her face in such a way that you will swear her face is lit from within . this scene has a wonderfully innocent sensuality to it without ever showing any flesh or using any provocative language . film makers today are incapable of anything this subtle when it comes to romance . it at this point in the story that george snaps , and what was a pleasant comedy is transformed into a great film . as clarence puts it , " you've been given a great gift , george . a chance to see what the world would be like without you . " mr . potter is richer than ever and the town poorer . the show ends in a miracle as true as the human spirit that the film embodies . it's a wonderful life runs 2 : 09 , and i loved every minute of it . it is not rated but would get a g . there is no sex , nudity , or profanity . the violence consists of one punch thrown in anger . " it was an okay movie , " said my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 . " the only part i really liked was when they were kids . " he gave it a thumbs sideways . to enjoy the film kids probably need to be a little bit older than jeffrey . this simple story full of old fashioned , but nevertheless , relevant values is exceptional . i recommend it strongly to you and give it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	this is also shown to be the prevailing opinion of every other coal miner in town--that it's something only for the lassies to do . this was the most energetic scene in the film and the only one that kept me fully awake , as the kid convinced me he could dance with pep . 
0	if there was ever an action movie that didn't warrant a sequel , it's speed . however , the film grossed enough money to be numbered among the big summer hits of 1994 , and the unfortunate result is this film , which reunites director jan de bont with leading lady sandra bullock , while leaving keanu reeves somewhere safe and dry , " working on his music " with his band , dogstar . considering the dubious quality of the final product , this may be the wisest decision of the young actor's career . speed 2 can be numbered among the worst second chapters ever made . the original speed was an entertaining jolt of pure adrenaline that took everyone by surprise . it was almost inevitable that any sequel , no matter how thrilling , would be a letdown . what no one anticipated was how sharply the downturn would be . not only is speed 2 missing the first movie's main character , but the excitement seems to have departed with him . speed 2 is a classic example of " sound and fury , signifying nothing . " only , in this case , that " nothing " isn't bolstered by the high-energy tension and tremendous special effects of de bont's previous excursion , twister . speed 2 is lackluster -- the plot methodically drives the film from one action set-piece to another , and the visuals are merely adequate . in fact , the only real thrill offered by speed 2 comes during the bloated movie's final half-hour ( as the ship's collision course becomes apparent ) . by then , it's too little , too late . the original speed was frantically paced and featured a number of individuals that , in spite of their two-dimensionality , were likable and exhibited human characteristics . we felt like we were trapped on the bus with them . this time , the pace and characters are mechanical , and it doesn't seem as if we're actually on board the endangered cruise ship . instead , we're watching form a detached vantage point , noticing details that we're not supposed to be paying attention to ( like what kind of lighting best highlights bullock's features ) or waiting in vain for someone to break into a chorus of " the love boat . " jason patric has one mode : serious . the actor , who is best suited to introspective , brooding roles ( as in the journey of august king ) , treats this ridiculous screenplay like it's war and peace . there's no sense of fun or goofiness . i never thought i would admit to missing reeves , but that's the situation here -- at least he understood the right tone to adopt . meanwhile , bullock plays the same part the same way ( albeit for a lot more money ) -- she looks cute , gets involved in a couple of action scenes , and is taken hostage . but she and patric never click ; their chemistry is glacial . since dennis hopper's howard payne was decapitated at the end of speed , the sequel needs a new villain . enter willem dafoe , who's usually a good psycho . not here , though . geiger has no manic energy , and dafoe doesn't seem particularly excited to be playing him . speed 2 is the kind of film that demands a strong opponent , but geiger isn't it . meanwhile , there are a few interesting cameos : tim conway and bo svenson have small parts , and speed veterans joe morton and glenn plummer are on hand for a couple of scenes . watching speed 2 , i felt embarrassed for everyone involved . and , once the word gets out about how disappointing this movie is , crowds will dwindle . there are enough action alternatives out there to sate the public's summer appetite . someone should have recognized what an appropriate metaphor the climactic sequence ( which features massive destruction ) is for the entire film . creatively and entertainment-wise , it's already sunk . 
1	with the mafia genre having run its course , director abel ferrara attempts to revive it with a bit of revisionist history . no longer . from when-in-doubt-shoot , we have gone to let's-ponder . don't worry , you will not be disappointed . to add a twist , the gangsters' business is full of political overtones with a range from republicans to communists . although you would swear that the funeral was by a swedish director , ferrara is actually the one who gave the world the extremely violent , but highly regarded bad lieutenant and my personal favorite of his , the 1993 remake of body snatchers . the only way i can figure it is that ferrara must have spent a lot time recently watching old ingmar bergman films . although it is a color film , its color palette contains mainly shades of black . the cinematography by ken kelsch is dark and gloomy . the sets by charles lagola are equally somber with dark woods and sleek , long black automobiles . joe delia's music is serious and melancholic with solo violins . ( i will reject making any reference here to our current political landscape . ) after a pseudo-intellectual discussion of the economic implication of strikes , ray says learnedly , " we understand the problems of the economy also . " the show is full of film references . johnny tells his friend that , " i would say life is pretty pointless , wouldn't you , without the movies ? " this is an accolade to the great film critic pauline kael and her famous quote " the words kiss kiss bang bang , which i saw on an italian movie poster , are perhaps the briefest statement imaginable of the basic appeal of movies . this appeal is what attracts us , and ultimately what makes us despair when we begin to understand how seldom movies are more than this . " the acting is interesting even if full of stereotypes . del toro is ultrasmooth and confident . walken is , well , walken . the most complex and complete performance is given by penn . his is the only one that is believable . it is easy to miss much of nicholas st . john's sparse script due to the tendency of the actors to whisper and mumble . i didn't make the world . " i love the part of the press kit discussing ferrara : " one of the most idiosyncratic filmmakers of our time , ferrar's films combine high art and low down sleaze to create an unflinching , in-your-face depiction of the moral mayhem of modern life . " this is an apt description of bad lieutenant , but is off the mark for the funeral . the funeral is a slow moving and cerebral film interrupted briefly for the obligatory violent sequences . its style does have a certain attraction and the acting is good . whether that is sufficient to compel audiences to see it remains problematic . it is rated r for nudity , explicit sex , strong language , and periodic , realistic , but not gratuitous violence . if teenagers go , they should be mature . the show is a tough call for me since as much as i admire the risk taking , there is just not enough there for me to be able to recommend it . it gets * * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	the film is filled with violence , vulgar dialogue , and seems devoid of real feelings . it relies on twists in the plot to keep you tuned into the investigation and shocking scenes to keep you aghast at the horrors of being in vietnam . the acting was flat , the story was trite , and the suspense was marginal . 
2	colonel chabert is one fantastic movie . among those who truly excelled were : the two leads , one supporting role , the director , the set decorator , and the cinematographer . everyone else who touched the movie was gifted as well . colonel chabert , by the great author balzac , is a mystery and a drama . even more important , it is a character study of four people . this plot setup happens in the first few minutes of the show . >from that point on , expect many surprises . i challenge you to guess the ending . i will only say that the ending is good , and yet it leaves you with some ambiguities and a few loose ends . my favorite part of the show is easily the academy award quality supporting actor role of the lawyer . he is tricky , complex , and absolutely mesmerizing . depardieu and ardant do award-caliber work as well . it is a joy to see such great artists at work . the cinematography is marvelous through out , but it is at the height of perfection in the lighting on the faces and in the blue gray of the lawyer's office . the office itself reminds me of something by one of the great dutch painters like vermeer . this and many other scenes show the brilliance in the set decoration . the overall composition of the show and the careful direction of all of the characters means that much of the credit has to go to the director , yves angelo . i read that this was his directorial debut , in which case , i eagerly await his second directing job . what would i change , probably nothing . if you see the show and give it * * * * , i would not argue with you . i almost did myself . the movie is perfectly timed and runs 1 : 50 . it is in french with easy to follow english subtitles . it is not rated , but i would guess it would get pg-13 for a total of about five minutes of battle scenes . other than the battles , there is no sex , violence , nudity , or bad language of any kind . i think any child over ten could see it and any teenager would enjoy it . i strongly recommend it and rate it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	a more-than-acceptable variation of jacques tourneur's cat people ( 42 ) , that is excellent in spots , but lags in its overall pacing . the scene is marvelously done , as it cuts away from the leopard's attack to picture leonora enjoying this revenge . though very imitative of the tourneur film and not quite as masterfully done , this rarely shown horror film is worth catching for its dark intensity and the eerie mood it sets . 
0	screenplay : helen bandis , yael bergman , emma-kate croghan . director : emma-kate croghan . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes , sexual situations ) running time : 76 minutes . for what it's worth , i suppose i learned something from love and other catastrophes : romantic comedies can be just as predictable and uninspired in australia as in the u . s . if attractive , likeable actors and a non-threatening lightness of tone count for anything -- and heaven knows that they can -- love and other catastrophes may find an audience receptive to its nominal charms . i suspect audiences are more likely to discover that it has absolutely nothing new to say , and that its moderately eccentric/neurotic characters are very familiar . love and other catastrophes is a ride on flat , straight ground to nowhere in particular . there is a certain energy to love and other catastrophes which makes it hard to dislike actively . the cast is uniformly appealing , and unlike may romantic larks about young people , the characters never start to grate on your nerves with their insecurities and crises . so much for the damning with faint praise . as nice as the characters are , most of them never progress beyond a single dimension . alice is the most complex character , a perfectionist whose impossibly high standards for a significant other take a back seat to some animal lust for ari , but croghan and her co-writers never explore that dynamic ; it's just a blip on alice's emotional radar which quickly vanishes . the characters march with such ease toward their respective happy endings that there is not a moment of tension , and it's all so shallow that you may forget every relationship half an hour after watching . even the very 90s twist of making one of the couples lesbian can't generate much spark . a couple without chemistry is a couple without chemistry , gay or straight . among the more perplexing aspects of love and other catastrophes are croghan's few attempts at idiosyncrasy , all of which fall flat . a farcical scene of film students dressed like their idols ( quentin tarantino , woody allen , etc . ) seems wildly out of place , and the burnt orange cinematography makes you wonder whether don simpson and jerry bruckheimer hijacked the production somewhere along the line . i suppose croghan had to do something to spice up the material , but it might have been a better idea to write a complete script , develop the characters and their relationships , _then_ put together a good-looking cast of characters . frances o'connor's bright smile and matt day's geeky handsomeness can buy few minutes of good will , but sooner or later people have to do something vaguely interesting . love and other catastrophes isn't a catastrophe ; it's just the kind of aimlessly frothy romantic comedies america has churned out a hundred times before . only the accents have been changed to distinguish the guilty . 
1	party ( director/writer : manoel de oliveira ; screenwriter : agustina bessa-luis ; cinematographer : renato berta ; editor : valerie loiseleux ; cast : michel piccoli ( michel ) , irene papas ( irene ) , leonor silveira ( leonor ) , rogerio samora ( rogerio ) ; runtime : 95 ; gemini films / madragoa filmes ; 1996-portugal / france ) the couple are shown to be avid collectors who like to pretend they care about culture but really have these objects only to impress others . she explains the absurdity of the world by saying , " the world belongs to lunatics like hitler and mussolini -- there're the ones who are most noticeable . " there's a surprise ending , which nicely resolves this little love conundrum . the film appeals to the intellect to answer its questions about love , but fails to be appealing emotionally . it was just too chatty and the characters always seemed to be symbols , too unapproachable to be considered as real people . but i'm a big fan of michel piccoli and irene papas , and i found their performances to be very stimulating--which is reason enough to see this art house film . 
1	screenplay : david howard and robert gordon . mpaa rating : pg ( profanity , violence ) running time : 102 minutes . i can say without reservation that galaxy quest boasts the best mainstream " high concept " of 1999 . i started chuckling the moment i heard about a film in which the cast members of a beloved television science-fiction series -- a decade removed from any career except appearing at conventions and ribbon-cuttings -- were mistaken by an alien race for real fighters for interplanetary justice . i saw it as a wonderful opportunity both to needle the phenomenon of " star trek " fandom and to embrace its fundamental optimism . if handled properly , it could be a fun and funny adventure into the way our popular entertainments can help define our world , and define the performers who create them . i was so engaged by the concept of galaxy quest that , even as the film was unfolding , i kept cutting it slack . it's also something of a missed opportunity ( or , more specifically , a series of missed opportunities ) . screenwriters david howard and robert gordon drop in plenty of goodies for those in the " star trek " know , yet they're often more content to rely on insider gags than to flesh those gags out . a story with the potential to focus on how the actors come to terms with their legacy ultimately becomes just another comic adventure , less about the people than about the premise . oh , but that premise does make for some entertaining viewing . most of the best jokes showcase an internal logic that should be the envy of every science-fiction film : because the thermians designed the real ship after the television ship , it follows all of the show's rules . though the humor does tend towards the " insider , " at least it's insider in a generally clever way , finding amusement even in the captain's tendency to lose his shirt during every fight scene . galaxy quest is far too lively and good-natured to deserve harsh criticism ; in a season full of prestige-hungry oscar wannabes , it's nice to see a film interested primarily in putting a smile on your face . the smiles , unfortunately , don't turn into full-fledged laughs often enough . the situations beg to have the absurdity level turned up just a notch ; the characters beg to be given more personality . " high concept " is most often used by critics as a derogatory term , but that didn't have to be the case for galaxy quest . though it may send you out of the theater chuckling , it could have taken its concept even higher . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	i will leave the movie to tell the story , and i will concentrate on commenting on the film . i am not a big fan of black and white , but i am glad this movie was made ( janusz kaminski ) that way . it made it seem more real since we all know after seeing all of the 40s newsreel footage that w . w . ii was in black and white . also , the story was so sad that black and white seemed a proper metaphor . actually , one of the geniuses of the movie was the use very effect use of a small bit of color in it . more great imagery . i have mixed feelings about spielberg as a director . i was disappointed by jurassic park but loved et . well , i found schindler's list just about perfect . the last hour of this movie was uplifting and ultimately very hopeful . i also liked his use of graphic violence not to titillate or scare , but simply to be totally realistic . the excellent script by steven zaillian based on thomas keneally's book must also share in the credit . the acting is excellent . i thought ralph fiennes was especially good ; chilling ! this show and these actors deserve tons of oscar nominations and awards . if i had a complaint , it would be about the overexposed whites in the center of the screen . they frequently made the center unclear . if the movie had any music i do not remember it . perhaps because the images are still so vivid . schindler's list runs a necessarily long 3 : 07 . you will be tired at the end because of the length and the seriousness of what you have just witnessed , but you will think the editing by michael kahn was done and be glad of the length . the movie is rated r for some frightening , bloody , and extremely realistic violence . it would be okay for mature teenagers . this movie gets * * * * in my book , and i recommend that every adult on the planet . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 1 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	in my opinion , a movie reviewer's most important task is to offer an explanation for his opinion . but with soul survivors , i'm so full of critical rage that this review is liable to turn into a venomous , uncontrollable rant , obligations damned . however , protocol forces me to do otherwise . rarely have i seen a director so thoroughly mishandle material . in his directorial debut , steve carpenter does nothing to provoke the audience into feeling any emotion . when the movie's camerawork isn't pedestrian , it's clich ? d . carpenter's need for close-ups , his camera following sagemiller from behind , drain the movie of any anticipation . we already know what to look for , so why should we be surprised ? and the sense of scary atmosphere , which was recently done so well in the others , is nowhere to be found here . carpenter's script relies on random twists and turns with a minimum of logic and loads of laziness . this is a movie where the ending features one character providing an explanation about the plot to another character , which is one of the lamest screenwriting devices around . and guess what ? this movie has both ! not that the main body of the film , which has sagemiller constantly running in fear or having a nervous breakdown , is anything worthwhile . since there's no captivating dialogue , no character chemistry exists anywhere . that's a huge problem , since the four main characters are supposed to be couples . carpenter can't even get the smutty scenes right , which are becoming more prevalent in pg-13 movies like bring it on and get over it . [the film was recently re-cut from an r rating to get more kids in the seats . -ed . ] when sagemiller and dushku dance together at a club , he rarely shows them in a full shot and he never keeps the camera on them for longer than a second before relating to some michael bay-style quick cuts . regardless , any sexiness in that scene is undercut by its stupidity . why wouldn't they wash the clothes in the sink or in the washing machine ? the cast , which will see better material in the future , would be wise to leave this one off their resumes . i felt sorry for affleck , who i've liked in other movies , and bentley , who was great in american beauty . and i'm not even getting into luke wilson's role as a priest . bottom line : soul survivors is so awful i feel compelled to knock on doors and warn people about it . rating : * [lowest rating] |------------------------------| \ * * * * * perfection \ \ * * * * good , memorable film \ \ * * * average , hits and misses \ \ * * sub-par on many levels \ \ * unquestionably awful \ |------------------------------| mpaa rating : pg-13 
2	united kingdom/canada , 1996 running length : 1 : 36 mpaa classification : no mpaa rating ( mature themes , profanity , violence , sex ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 shown at the philadelphia festival of world cinema , 5/7/97 & 5/9/97 literature is a critical part of our culture . few would argue with that statement , but , in a world of rapidly declining attention spans , one has the sense that any book not offering instant gratification will not attain proper recognition . swann , directed by first time feature film maker ( but long time documentarian ) anna benson gyles from the novel by carol shields , is a cinematic celebration of books , poems , and other aspects of literature . it is about the need to protect and nurture great works of writing , especially when the author is no longer around . yes , there is a mystery in swann , but it's of secondary importance to the meticulously-developed characters and breathtaking cinematography . the film creates two unforgettable individuals . there's brave , reliable rose , whose salt-of-the-earth qualities make her the kind of woman whom people don't think twice about imposing upon . then there's sarah , a woman who appears to have everything but is really lacking some of the most basic things in life : love and journalistic integrity . the plot of swann moves slowly , occasionally grinding to a complete halt . but that's okay , because this movie is about taking one's time . poetry is never meant to be hurried through , but to be savored and explored , lovingly and carefully . aspects of this film are reminiscent of visual poetry -- simple shots of stunning beauty that prove you don't need mountain ranges or other spectacular vistas to capture the viewer's eye . everyday images presented in a specific manner can be just as effective , such as a sugar cube absorbing coffee ( borrowed from kieslowski's blue , but no less impressive here ) . swann is certainly not for everyone . its slow pace may drive some to distraction , and its apparent lack of focus ( the soluton to the " mystery " isn't surprising or shocking ) will turn others off . swann is a humble motion picture that , thanks in large part to fricker and richardson , is capable of reaching out to a part of us that few movies touch . 
1	okay , i admit it . i'm a sucker for true stories . in the press kit for intimate relations , first-time writer and director philip goodhew claims that ninety-nine percent of the facts are accurate . he even took the film's title from the coy term the newspapers of the time used instead of the forbidden word , " sex . " " i was just a bit of a rapscallion when i was 10 . " set in the ticky-tacky , pastel 1950s , the time's hypocritical attitudes about sex are sometimes surprising but never more so that marjorie's lechery . this sends both of them into uncontrollable fits of giggles . this is also one of the few laughs in what is a serious film about a highly dysfunctional family that gets involved in a high profile , criminal case . the sometimes kitsch sets leads one at first to think that the show will become a black comedy , which it doesn't . joyce's 14th birthday party -- full of hideous blue cake and silly cucumbers shaped like tiny alligators -- is when the troubles start . morality has no practical meaning for any of them . " i like being told what to do , " he explains . " i'm used to it . " eventually , after more twists and turns , the film comes to its somewhat predictable conclusion . the ending is the least satisfying aspect of the movie , even though it is true . it is the character study of these people up until the ending that makes the picture . human beings can do some pretty stupid things and let themselves get stuck in hopeless situations . it is rated r for sex , profanity , and violence and would be fine for mature teenagers . i give the picture a mild thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	and it gets better . it is what happens or doesn't happen next that forms the basis of the plot . director j . j . bigas luna's the chambermaid on the titanic ( la femme de chambre du titanic ) , based on the novel by didier decoin , isn't some cheap exploitation picture trying to ride on the coattails of titanic's success . instead , it is a delightful and whimsical tale , full of the magic of the storytelling . beautifully and delicately constructed , the film captivates and surprises the audience . the superlative acting adds to the enjoyment , and unlike many french films , the three leads will probably be familiar to american viewers . it all starts when the strikingly handsome horty , played with quiet intensity and precision by olivier martinez from the horseman on the roof , wins a contest . and that is only the setup for the plot . the question is what is true , and what isn't ? they are not entirely sure if they care about his veracity since these ribald , adult fairy tales keep getting better and better . the touching movie takes many unpredictable twists before coming to a surprising and completely satisfying conclusion . like horty's stories , the movie is smart enough to serve up delicious little morsels of ambiguity for us to savor and ponder long after the house lights have gone up . it is in french with english subtitles . the film is not rated but would be an r for profanity and sex and would be fine for older teenagers . 
0	cast : thierry lhermitte , ludwig briand , patrick timsit , arielle dombasle , miou-miou director : herve palud producers : louis becker and thierry lhermitte screenplay : herve palud and igor aptekman cinematography : fabio conversi music : manu katche u . s . distributor : touchstone pictures dubbed in english from the original french little indian , big city , the american name given to herve palud's 1995 french fish-out-of-water comedy , l'indian dans la ville , is easily one of the most tedious viewing experiences of 1996 . i came as close to walking out of this movie as anything i have ever watched . no one , no matter how desperate they are for family entertainment , should be subjected to the indignity of sitting through this ninety-minute excuse for a motion picture . however , while truffaut's movie was thoughtful and hogan's was fanciful , palud's is just plain moronic . the script is kindergarten level , the protagonists are irritating caricatures , the acting is nonexistent , and the editing is embarrassingly haphazard . little indian , big city is one of those comedies that's almost never funny . it's worth about two chuckles . other than that , however , the humor is consistently lame . and those are the high points . as for the feeble attempts at father/son bonding . . . this is the kind of formulaic regurgitation that makes getting even with dad look good by comparison . hollywood is often condemned as the chief producer of bad family films , but rarely does an american studio come up with something this unwatchable . some might argue that little indian , big city would have worked better with subtitles . i doubt that . no matter what language the movie is in , the operative word for it is mal . 
1	this fictionalized film looks as if it could be a documentary , shot in the cinema verite style . this kid's a downer , with a low attention span and a naive recognition of how messed up he is . just live in the snow . first-time director julian goldberger got into the kid's head and presented a haunting portrayal of what it is like to be lost and frightened in a world that is too complex for this junk food eating kid , who looks like a psycho with his crew-cut but is as soft as a twinkie . what the film does best besides have their unlikely antihero be the appealing voice of the film , is catch the desolate mood of the locale . what it forgets to do , is tell a good story . that the prison system is not the answer for kid's like this , is also obvious . why he was in prison is not given , but there's hints that he was picked up as a sniffer of chemicals or some other minor offense . this kid is certainly not a hardened criminal , which is the shame of it all , as there seems to be no answers from society or from this film what to do about lost souls like him . at least , the film makes clear that its position is that incarceration is not the answer , which certainly goes against the current grain of thinking in america . despite the film's good look and the way it uses a novel approach in its film language to echo what ryan is thinking , everything seems surface deep . it could have used something else to compensate for the mindlessness of ryan to go along with his painful tale of hopelessness and the film's evocative atmosphere , which wears thin after awhile . 
2	cast : leonardo dicaprio , kate winslet , billy zane , kathy bates , frances fisher , gloria stuart , bill paxton , bernard hill , david warner director : james cameron producers : james cameron , jon landau screenplay : james cameron cinematography : russell carpenter music : james horner u . s . distributor : paramount pictures short of climbing aboard a time capsule and peeling back eight and one-half decades , james cameron's magnificent titanic is the closest any of us will get to walking the decks of the doomed ocean liner . meticulous in detail , yet vast in scope and intent , titanic is the kind of epic motion picture event that has become a rarity . you don't just watch titanic , you experience it -- from the launch to the sinking , then on a journey two and one-half miles below the surface , into the cold , watery grave where cameron has shot never-before seen documentary footage specifically for this movie . now , in titanic , cameron's flawless re-creation of the legendary ship has blurred the line between reality and illusion to such a degree that we can't be sure what's real and what isn't . to make this movie , it's as if cameron built an all-new " titanic " , let it sail , then sunk it . of course , special effects alone don't make for a successful film , and titanic would have been nothing more than an expensive piece of eye candy without a gripping story featuring interesting characters . in his previous outings , cameron has always placed people above the technological marvels that surround them . unlike film makers such as roland emmerich and dean devlin , cameron has used visual effects to serve his plot , not the other way around . the picture's spectacle is the ship's sinking , but its core is the affair between a pair of mismatched , star-crossed lovers . titanic is a romance , an adventure , and a thriller all rolled into one . it contains moments of exuberance , humor , pathos , and tragedy . in their own way , the characters are all larger-than-life , but they're human enough ( with all of the attendant frailties ) to capture our sympathy . perhaps the most amazing thing about titanic is that , even though cameron carefully recreates the death of the ship in all of its terrible grandeur , the event never eclipses the protagonists . the movie does not begin in 1912 , however -- instead , it opens in modern times , with a salvage expedition intent on recovering some of the ship's long-buried treasure . the bulk of the film -- well over 80% of its running time -- is spent in flashbacks . by keeping the focus firmly on rose and jack , cameron avoids one frequent failing of epic disaster movies : too many characters in too many stories . in titanic , rose and jack are at the fore from beginning to end , and the supporting characters are just that -- supporting . the two protagonists ( as well as cal ) are accorded enough screen time for cameron to develop multifaceted personalities . as important as the characters are , however , it's impossible to deny the power of the visual effects . especially during the final hour , as " titanic " undergoes its death throes , the film functions not only as a rousing adventure with harrowing escapes , but as a testimony to the power of computers to simulate reality in the modern motion picture . the scenes of " titanic " going under are some of the most awe-inspiring in any recent film . this is the kind of movie that it's necessary to see more than once just to appreciate the level of detail . one of the most unique aspects of titanic is its use of genuine documentary images to set the stage for the flashback story . as a result , some of the underwater shots in the framing sequences are of the actual liner lying on the ocean floor . their importance and impact should not be underestimated , since they further heighten the production's sense of verisimilitude . instead , he's likable and energetic in this part -- two characteristics vital to establishing jack as a hero . while titanic is easily the most subdued and dramatic of cameron's films , fans of more frantic pictures like aliens and the abyss will not be disappointed . titanic has all of the thrills and intensity that movie-goers have come to expect from the director . a dazzling mix of style and substance , of the sublime and the spectacular , titanic represents cameron's most accomplished work to date . it's important not to let the running time hold you back -- these three-plus hour pass very quickly . although this telling of the " titanic " story is far from the first , it is the most memorable , and is deserving of oscar nominations not only in the technical categories , but in the more substantive ones of best picture , best director , best actor , and best actress . - ingmar bergman 
0	the confusing and awkward script is loosely based on the 1957 movie across the bridge with rod steiger . personally , i didn't find any of the film funny , although i did smile when freddy tried to drive a car across the rio grande . whoops , too deep . the movie relies on the old routine of things frequently not being what they seem . the ridiculousness of the script is perhaps best shown in daryl's actions on the train . this just doesn't make any sense whether you take his request to be a serious one , as it appears to be , or as a joke . in either case , it isn't funny , and it doesn't make any sense in the context of the story . the entire movie plays like a reject for a convoluted saturday night live skit . and if you ignore the comedic parts and evaluate the movie as a cop drama -- after all , lots of people die -- it has even less to offer . this movie isn't even worth a first take , much less a double take . it is rated pg-13 for violence and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought the film was funny and gave it * * * . he said that the story did not fit together properly so they should have spent about 15 more minutes in the beginning developing the characters . 
2	a wonderful noir-type of film , that is actually more about style and ambiance than it is about what usually underlines the dark themes of the ticklish noir film subjects , that delve into the underbelly of their protagonist and evoke a certain sense of injustice in the world . all that is superfluous to bob the gambler ; in this film , he is more interested in taking care of his trenchcoat and fedora and giving hand-outs to those he likes , than he is in doing anything else but looking good . this is so much a movie about how the young and old can be screw-ups but are still okay with themselves , seemingly daring life to keep them from what they want to be . by the film's end we are convinced that we know a lot about bob , and come to the conclusion that he's a pretty good guy , thinking to ourselves , even though he is linked to gambling and crime , nevertheless , he does possess a wonderful character about him , something that is worthy of our praise . a great film , that is shot with perfection , capturing the nuances and finesse a master film-maker brings to his work , while shooting a low-budget b/w film , that tells a simple story , but is done with such effervescence , as to make us feel so much the better that we at least met this perfectly flawed character , even if it is only on film , since , for most of us , it is more than likely we will not have the chance to meet the likes of a true character like him in person . 
1	this is a creaky horror film , with plenty of fun moments in its wobbly story . it is played mostly as a spoof on vampires , but has a nifty murder mystery going for it , plus some gimmicky camera work featuring an apparition and the scary dark castle filled with strange sounds , cobwebs , spiders , bats , and rodents . he tries to steal the picture by hamming it up , even though he only has one line in the film . but the biggest ham is barrymore , he makes every line into a stage-like performance . this amusing b&w film , with photography by james wong howe , captures the eerie atmosphere befitting a horror film . it's a classic horror spoof , well worth seeing for either nostalgia purposes or lighthearted fun . 
0	for nearly 15 minutes , chill factor actually warrants comparison to the film it tries so hard to bring to mind . for 15 minutes , it's almost speed with a thermometer instead of a spedometer . during that 15 minute chunk of the film , director hugh johnson does everything an action film director needs to do , offering plenty of close calls and nervous laughter . unfortunately , those 15 minutes occur smack in the middle of the film , between 45 minutes of excruciating introductory exposition and 45 minutes of alternatingly absurd and tedious conclusion . the burst of action seems like it's going to be the payoff for sitting through one of the longest , least interesting prologues to an action film _ever_ , a prologue which lays out brynner's feud with " elvis's " creator ( david paymer ) in exhaustive detail . then , almost before you get a chance to enjoy the few thrills chill factor can provide , it sends mason and arlo on a leisurely paddle down the river so they can bond over their past mistakes . and it's all downstream from there . it might have been at least remotely worth sitting through all that exposition if the characters or performances hadn't made you want everyone involved to end up chemically defoliated . cuba gooding jr . is rapidly turning into one of the most aggravating oscar-winning actors in history , a one-note performer who widens his eyes and tightens his jaw to express practically every emotion ( the direction of the corners of his mouth is the only hint as to his mood ) . his work in chill factor borders on the embarrassing , a frantic collection of over-the-top reactions that would make martin lawrence and chris tucker blush . skeet ulrich could only hope to register an emotion of any kind , using a flat delivery for even flatter lines . and colin firth squints and rasps his way through the villain role , never quite sure whether he should be a moustache-twirling melodrama baddie or tormented soldier with shattered patriotism . the absence of a sympathetic hero and solid villain damage an action film , but they're not always fatal . it can even get away with ridiculous plot developments , like the idea that a toxic chemical gas could be contained inside a traffic tunnel by blowing up both sides of the tunnel ( creating the ever-effective pile-of-rubble vacuum seal ) . but there is no way an action film can get away with so little action . chill factor just sits there , inert , for nearly its entire running time , even forgetting during its best moments to remind us of the status of its key plot element's rising temperature . it's hard to believe that a film this weightless would waste so much time on setting up the premise , then never exploit the premise . if you want to want to imagine chill factor -- and imagine why it's not even worth the time of a true-blue action fan -- think of speed , with 90 minutes of the film set at a bus stop . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	producers : jane rosenthal , barry levinson and robert deniro . director : barry levinson . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes ) running time : 95 minutes . here's how i know i'm watching a truly brilliant piece of socio-political satire : even as i'm laughing , i'm not sure whether i shouldn't actually be cringing in fear for my country . strangelove inspired that kind of reaction , as did network and moments in m * a * s * h and being there . working with a magnificent script by hilary henkin and david mamet , director barry levinson creates the kind of film which leaves you teary-eyed from laughter and slack-jawed in astonishment at its dark audacity . the premise of wag the dog feels torn from today's scandal-filled headlines . wag the dog rolls out the hilarious situations with such punishing frequency that it's virtually impossible to select highlights . some of the most subtle but scathing barbs target the media , who lap up the images provided by the president's people far too readily , riding the wave rather than bucking the tide . like all the finest satire , wag the dog is just absurd enough to be hilarious , and just plausible enough to be alarming . the truly impressive thing about henkin and mamet's script is that it finds time amid all the comic pot-shots to create a genuinely fascinating character in stanley motss . hoffman plays motss as an insecure mogul determined to achieve the recognition he feels has been unfairly denied him , even though breen continues to insist that this particular story can never become one of his war stories . it's easily hoffman's best performance in over a decade : sly , funny , angry , self-absorbed , infuriating and absolutely delightful . though wag the dog focuses almost entirely on the actions of the president's shadow cabinet , it's not exactly an indictment of political dirty tricks . if anything , the real villains in wag the dog are the american people -- not just for accepting the phony war , but for making it necessary in the first place . the script strongly suggests that the accusations made against the president are false , but the facts of the matter are instantly irrelevant . wag the dog is a dazzling , thought-provoking entertainment which alternately tickles you and slaps you in the face , providing a warning that it's easy to keep making fools out of us if we keep making it so easy . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	con air , producer jerry bruckheimer's generic follow-up to 1996's blockbuster , the rock , is the kind of motion picture that critics refer to when they moan about the " dumbing down " of american cinema . this movie is a perfect example of what's wrong with many big-budget films today : no characters , no intelligence , and , worst of all , little fun . although director simon west intends for con air to be a comic book come to life , it lacks the visual flair and imagination of all but the most trite comics . the film relies on impressive pyrotechnic displays , but it has been a long time since a well-executed explosion enraptured an audience . con air is noisy and flashy , but that can be said about any of the numerous , same-genre pictures that reach screens every year . what the movie lacks are tension and excitement to go along with all the bangs . the action sequences are presented in a pedestrian fashion , and there are too few instances when we feel that the protagonist is in any real danger . at least con air isn't as obviously bad as turbulence . for starters , this film has a couple of assets that the earlier " terror in the sky " film lacked : nicolas cage and john cusack . while the actors are far from their career best here ( in fact , cage often looks bored ) , mediocre acting from these two is preferable to what we got from ray liotta and lauren holly . actually , the really colorful performances belong to the actors playing the criminals . con air divides the characters into clearly-defined groups of good and bad ( with the members of the latter category vastly outnumbering those of the former ) . predictably , with no shades of gray , there isn't one interesting character . he's too clean to be anything but bland , and , worse still , scott rosenberg's script doesn't give him any of the one-liners that we've come to expect from action heroes in this sort of movie . he's like john mclane of die hard without the wisecracking charisma . another thing that's noteworthy about con air is how poorly it's patched together . in his recent review of the movie rough magic , film critic roger ebert made the observation that " it's a cliche to talk about great visuals , since if you point a camera in the right direction you can make almost anything look good . " with the exception of a few nicely composed shots , the film's look is uniformly stale . action movies are typically lauded for their tremendous special effects and their ability to keep viewers on the edge of their seats . in fact , beyond some scenery- chewing by several over-the-top actors and a couple of mildly engaging chase sequences , there's little here to justify the seemingly endless two hour length . sitting through this movie is like watching a dog running in circles chasing its tail -- the amusement factor dies quickly as the situation become repetitive . unless you're desperate for a way to kill time , con air is one flight you can afford to miss . 
1	this is the original film adaptation of the graham greene semi-autobiography . the older b&w version puts less stress on the lust and more on the inner conflict the two lovers are having . it's a more reserved telling of the story , probably due to the conservative time it was filmed than anything else . this version actually leaves a greater impact on the viewer of the momentous tragedy of the self-imposed restrictions religion has placed on the relationship for her . the story never seems illogical , as does the tacky ending to the later version , which tried to get too fancy in its approach to this melodramatic love story . there was no reason to make a remake , and especially so , since the newer version doesn't add anything new to the mix that the older version didn't already have . what evolves through greene's telling of the inner spiritual battle worked out through the characters , is that what is impossible becomes what is religious and man's worldliness is seen as something that is not completely satisfying to him but is something he thinks he needs to satisfy because he doesn't believe in an afterlife . that she loves him so much , that to just have him live will be worth it . the priest responds , " you made a vow to someone you didn't believe in -- you have the free will to break it . " but you have also taken the first step toward god , that you could continue with , if you so choose . dmytryk has made an intelligent and cogent version of a tough novel to film , and made it into an impressionable film . the best performances in the film came from the two actors who seemed to be effortlessly acting , john mills , as the detective interested more in the craft of his job than the ethics , though always aware of the moral implications of what he is doing . his pleasurable performance stole the film . in many respects , i found this the more interesting version . what the other version had , was more explicit sex scenes and a better actor playing bendrix . 
2	i'm not rappaport , herb gardner's 1986 tony award winning play , comes to the screen with the actor gardner had originally envisioned in the lead role . although judd hirsch won his own tony for playing nat in the broadway version , gardner had always wanted to see walter matthau's interpretation of the character . but , when the opportunity arose to make a movie adaptation , gardner approached matthau , who agreed enthusiastically . yet , while this film has much of the irascible charm and wit of the earlier movie , it is more affecting and churns deeper waters . in grumpy old men , we laugh at the characters because they are silly , funny , and likable . in i'm not rappaport , we laugh with them because we understand not only who they are , but who they wish they had become . and , while most of their efforts are ultimately ineffective , it isn't until the very end that we , like them , recognize that even apparent failures can be successes . several minor characters occasionally cross nat and midge's paths . for the most part , the plot is incidental . what matters in i'm not rappaport are the characters and their dialogue . over the two-plus hour running time , nat and midge touch on an amazing variety of subjects : unions and bosses ( " their tactics haven't changed in one century " ) , age ( " an old man like me , i could wander through the world like a ghost " ) , memories ( " nostalgia kills more of us than heart disease " ) , and the war between idealism and realism ( " i got smarter -- i fought in battles i thought i could win " ) . they talk and talk and talk , and they're always a delight to listen to , whether we're hearing nat's tall stories or midge's less fanciful reflections . i'm not rappaport reveals its characters in steps . because nat and midge are played by matthau and davis , a pair of " audience-friendly " performers , we're prone to like them , but it isn't until we spend some time in their company that our initial impressions are validated . with a similar economy of scenes , we gain a wealth of insight into midge's personality -- he's an ex-prize fighter on the ropes . matthau and davis have both invested a great deal of heart and energy into this production , and it shows . while their names on the marquee all-but-ensure an element of quality in any film , their work in i'm not rappaport represents a mark of distinction for each of them . the supporting performers are all solid -- each gets one prominent scene to compliment , but not eclipse , the leads . i'm not rappaport is the kind of movie that grows on you . it's obviously a play that has been adapted for the cinema , but that doesn't take anything away from the delicate magic that gardner has conjured by his use of sly comedy and keen social insight . while it's true that this is essentially a buddy movie , it's a very special one . nat and midge's friendship reminds us of what bonding really is -- and it doesn't have anything to do with dodging bullets or running away from exploding buildings . in the final analysis , this motion picture is far more about a rapport than a rappaport . 
2	most science fiction movies , good or bad , have a single look and set of characters that they use throughout the entire production . but not luc besson's the fifth element . every five minutes , some totally new character or special effect is introduced . this makes for a highly involving and mesmerizing film . although the film is incorrectly being marketed as the " star wars for the 90s , " it does have some of the imagination of the star wars saga . where it differs , is that the fifth element never takes itself very seriously . the current trend among filmmakers is to engage in a battle with the studio's finance department with the filmmakers' goal being to spend the maximum amount possible on special effects . the fifth element puts some sanity in this trend by spending every penny wisely , producing some of the most dazzling effects in a long time . if you are envisioning a depressing blade runner motif for besson's vision , think again . typical of the innovativeness is its rendering of traffic in a big city in the year 2259 . rather than heavy traffic on the one street level , the airborne cars operate on numerous but carefully controlled parallel logical surfaces . among all of the visual spectacles is a story and some excellent acting as well . bruce willis , who can be terrific but has been in so many dogs like color of night that i have begun to dread seeing his name on the marquee , plays the starring role of the taxi driver and ex-government agent korben dallas . she speaks only a sing-song style of language that baffles korben . the screenplay by luc besson and robert mark kamen has enough complexity to make following it somewhat of a challenge , but never so much as to lose the audience . working through it becomes an interesting diversion , but all eyes stay glued to the screen to see what will happen next . the fifth element is more a feast for the eyes than the mind . the film is filled with cartoonish shoot-'em-up violence , willis , as one of many shooters , plays a much more lovable character than he does in the die hard series . his enjoyment of his character transfers easily to the audience . the chemistry between korben and his sidekick leeloo pulsates with comedic and romantic energy . me protect you . " ) with her quirky mannerisms and speech , jovovich steals most of her scenes . all of the details , right down to the barbecuing of the ugly little parasites on the spacecraft before the flight , are carefully orchestrated with maximum imagination . i believe it . the result overflows with energy and creativity . the fifth element runs 2 : 07 and is worth every minute . it is rated pg-13 for brief female nudity , cartoonish violence , and a little profanity . the film would be fine for kids say 9 or 10 and up . i had great fun at the fifth element so i recommend it to you strongly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	as jaws-like music blasts through the theater speakers , we see a sinister , black range rover moving into attack position . the audience's reaction at my screening was to laugh at this hokey scene , one of many such ones in wild things . first , the bad news . wild things , unlike starship troopers and scream , isn't smart enough to realize that its only hope is as a parody . one of the film's minor roles , a slimy but cheap lawyer named ken bowden , is acted for maximum comedic pleasure by bill murray . the other actors have been hoodwinked by director john mcnaughton into believing that they are in a serious thriller . ( if you've seen the delightful movie love and death on long island with its intentionally awful hot pants college ii as a movie-with-the-movie spoof , you may begin to wonder if you just walked into hot pants college i . ) the show does become laughably bad with its many highly predictable twists and turns . and if you like shows played for maximum titillation , you'll like the nudity and the hot sex - you even get a threesome . for those seeking an intelligent script , this one by kem nunn and stephen peters will undoubtedly leave you as frustrated as some of the oversexed teenagers in the movie . " not get'n any , " one yells back . in this hamlet full of ranging hormones the kid was essentially enunciating one of the town's axioms . as kelly , denise richards , who was so perfectly cast in starship troopers , is wasted . she does little more than show off her body , which admittedly is worth displaying . neve campbell from scream plays suzie . neve , who stays fully clothed , doesn't have much challenging work to do either . ( " can i get you anything ? in a movie that telegraphs its every punch , detective ray duquette lectures suzie's ex-boyfriend as a way to talk to the audience . " don't forget that , " he throws in for good measure to make sure we are paying attention . suitably admonished not to believe anyone , we don't , which gives the upcoming twists away for those few who haven't already guessed them by that point . could the movie have been better ? absolutely . bill murray understood the material even if no one else did . imagine what this cast could have done with murray in the director's chair . then we would have had a wildly funny movie rather than this one of cheap thrills and a few laughs . it is rated r for full-frontal nudity , sex , dope smoking , profanity , and some violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
0	the problem is that jefferson's basic personality is the same . in attempting to walk a fine line between the two alternatives , it succeeds at neither . actor/director/writer robert townsend has invested a lot of effort and energy into this production , but little of it is well-focused . four editors worked on the film in post-production , and the final offering has the confused , choppy look of something put together by a committee . if decent human beings band together , it doesn't demand someone who can leap buildings to clean up the streets . it's a worthwhile thing for a movie to say , but townsend gets a little too preachy about it . subtlety , at least in this case , is not one of the meteor man's qualities . normally in a movie of this kind , you don't worry too much about characterization . there isn't anyone in this movie that simulates a real human being . even townsend's jefferson , with by far the greatest screen time of anyone , fails to display more than a couple of carefully-contrived emotions . some elements of the storyline are annoying . but jefferson dawdles around while his mother makes him a costume , occasionally knocking off a few token golden lords and letting the running time of the film move towards acceptable motion picture levels . a battle that should be one-sided and quickly ended turns into a an all-out war with the superhero made into the underdog by a plot contrivance . there are a few funny scenes in the film , and at least one running gag that works ( look at james earl jones' always-changing wigs ) . towards the end , positioned right in the middle of the climactic battle between jefferson and the leader of the golden lords , is a truly hilarious moment that , despite its odd placement , is worth mentioning . if the meteor man had boasted more such scenes , it would have been far less tiresome to watch . no one can deny that robert townsend had good intentions when he put the meteor man together , but the final product doesn't have consistency or coherence . with its positive message and lack of serious violence , this is a reasonable choice for a children's film , but something of a lame offering for adults . there's not enough of any one element--comedy , satire , drama , or action--and the mixture isn't any more palatable than the individual ingredients . the meteor man is a superhero movie that lacks punch . 
1	instead , it's a black comedy/satire that ruthlessly skewers political extremism by suggesting that the farther to the left or right you travel on the political spectrum , the closer you move to the same destination . call it " circular politics " . according to dan rosen's script , it's possible for the most die-hard liberals to be as reactionary as their conservative counterparts . while there's nothing new about this philosophy , the last supper approaches it from a fresh , decidedly unconventional perspective . for the first thirty minutes , this picture takes a solid premise and runs with it . unfortunately , the momentum eventually flags , and the last supper meanders through an unnecessarily-protracted middle segment . things don't snap back into focus until the final scenes . first time feature director stacy title ( who helmed the 1993 , oscar-nominated short , " down on the waterfront " ) doesn't play favorites in the lampooning game -- liberals , conservatives , and moderates all get theirs . the last supper also consciously attacks political correctness by depicting the somewhat-absurd lengths to which this predominant social philosophy can be taken . the underlying message is that we should be more concerned with people and individual freedoms than with a specific ideology . zack doesn't appreciate their ideals . but that's not the end of it . they realize that perhaps they have done humanity a favor by ridding it of such a misfit . one of the major problems with the last supper is that , following an auspicious setup , it stagnates . although this eventually dovetails with the main story , the connection is too tenuous to be worth all the screen time spent on it . occasionally , the last supper tries to be serious , but drama is by far the film's weakest element . there are also attempt to develop character arcs for some of the one-dimensional protagonists , but these don't work , either . often-bizarre personality changes happen too abruptly to be credible . none of the primary actors does an especially good job . too often in motion pictures , the ideas are much better than the execution . that's the case here . but the last supper doesn't push the envelope far enough . the edge could be better honed . and , in the end , that makes pickings a little slim at this particular meal . 
2	starring : mick lally , eileen colgan , jeni courtney , richard sheridan , john lynch . screenplay/director : john sayles . that john sayles continues to make films is something of a testimony to his dedication , and that his films continue to be released is a testimony to an audience somewhere out there with taste and intelligence . sayles has been relentlessly his own animal as a writer-director , making movies like the brother from another planet , matewan and passion fish which have been marketing nightmares because they were unique tales that a single tag line couldn't capture . as those examples also show , sayles doesn't help his cause any with catchy titles . the secret of roan inish is another of sayles' unconventional efforts , and yet another work of art , a beautifully filmed tale of myth , magic and the power of oral history . gifted cinematographer haskell wexler captures stunning land- and seascapes with clarity even through layers of mist , and his interiors are close but inviting . mason daring's arrangements of traditional folk melodies provide the perfect complement to wexler's images , full of soaring tin whistle and plaintive violin . most effective is sayles' unsentimental directing style , which presents roan inish's more mythical elements so matter-of-factly that they take on even more of an aura of wonder . the ireland of the secret of roan inish is full of magic , and sayles presents magic as an understood part of the tapestry of irish life . what keeps the magic alive , however , is the oral tradition , and this is what sayles is truly celebrating in the secret of roan inish . even though we are also seeing the events described , it is the words which are truly memorable , spoken with passion and conviction , a direct link through time between individuals and their history . at a time when tradition is a somewhat unfashionable concept , sayles has crafted a love poem to tradition . there is probably not a single name or face in the cast of roan inish which is familiar to american audiences , but the performances are mostly charming and understated . newcomers jeni courtney ( fiona ) and richard sheridan ( fiona's cousin and co-conspirator eamon ) have their weak moments , but are basically solid . the secret of roan inish is lyrical , low-key and evocative , which could translate to " slow and boring " for some audiences . those with a taste for something crafted with grace , confidence and a feel for the power of a well-told tale will find this one secret worth sharing . 
2	in the lovers of the arctic circle , a stunning picture with a plethora of magical images , the paper airplane scene is among the most memorable . we watch their flight as they glide effortlessly through the air . we see the only one that makes it to her courtyard perfectly framed by a circle in the iron gate . written and directed by julio medem , the movie is easily one of the most poetic movies in some time . the images captured by cinematographer gonzalo berridi are as breathtaking in the intimate moments as in the grand . one time-lapsed sequence filmed over a lake in lapland during the time of the midnight sun will take your breath away . using the aphorism that silence is golden , the director stages their first liaison more with subtle images than words . this is the sort of reverential look at sexuality rarely found in american films , especially those dealing with teens . the story explores this circularity of life with some strategically placed movements forward and backward in time to illustrate the ties our past have with our present . the delicate beauty of the narrative is enhanced by the way the filmmaker doesn't feel the need to explain everything and leaves some key scenes purposely ambiguous . in a film that is so much more than just the sum of its parts , its parts are pretty impressive in themselves . the casting and the acting , especially tricky with a story that spans three sets of ages , are wonderful . alberto iglesias's music has a haunting lyricism . and the dialog possesses a simple beauty . the mesmerizing film so transfixes the audience that you feel you are engulfed in the picture . it is more than a mere movie and becomes almost a spiritual experience . bursting with memorable images , the movie's strength can be witnessed in the perfect ways the transitions between scenes are handled . and as in the rest of this carefully constructed film of delicate intricacy , these two scenes have many links , only some of which are immediately apparent . a film for the mind as well as the heart , the lovers of the arctic circle has only one significant fault . it ends . the lovers of the arctic circle runs 1 : 52 . the film's sparse dialog is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for brief nudity , sexuality and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	a very entertaining kitsch film , with great costumes , a fine sense of adventure , and an ample sprinkling of comedy . this technicolor mgm film is a remake from the 1920 and 1930 films , that were based on a play by edward knoblock . the sets are lavish and fun to look at ; the bouncy acting fits the playfulness of the fantasy story . the mix-ups are devilishly funny , and how the film gets resolved is fun to watch , as there are magic tricks that are performed and songs that are so bad that they are good , and a host of cast members come in and out of the film so seamlessly , adding their stamp of delightful bemusement to a very diverting film , which seems to be effortlessly done . this makes for some lightweight entertainment and some not so bad viewing from purely an entertainment standpoint . 
1	sometimes an audience can work against you . and the vast majority of those fortunate enough to find a place acted like card carrying members of the martin lawrence fan club . lawrence , from a thin line between love and hate and the house party series , has a happy demeanor to go with his fast and sometimes foul mouth . he's quite a likable star so i can understand part of his attraction . when lawrence , playing robber terrence paul davidson , said two words , any two words , the audience went into pandemonium . since i thought the first part was only sporadically funny , i felt strangely isolated . as pleased as i was that the audience was having such a great time , i found the audience's riotous attitude off-putting since i thought most of the initial gags in the movie only barely worked . the broadly written comedy in nothing to lose takes many risks and some of them pay off beautifully . and then again , some sink like a stone . tim robbins , who had many fewer fans at my screening , was much funnier than lawrence . after a pregnant pause , he delivers his lines with great deadpan humor . the chemistry and love between them seems genuine from the first scene . why can't a robber in a comedy just be a robber ? ( still , it does make for one joke that people in the computer field will appreciate . of the movie's farcical scenes that work , two stand out . not a great comedy , but one worth trying . it is rated r for profanity and sex . although we were shocked to see a large part of our audience under 9 and many under 6 , kids under 13 have no business being there . for teenagers , the show should be fine . i give the picture thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	while this may not be quite as sweet as the preacher's wife , the central theme of redemption is essentially the same . and , even though the script for michael moderates its sugary flavor with a dash of cynicism , it's no stretch to guess that the film is going for the same audience that's enchanted by such life-affirming classics as a christmas carol and it's a wonderful life . andie macdowell is dreadfully miscast as dorothy . she's supposed to be uncertain and vulnerable , but macdowell never successfully conveys those characteristics , nor does she give us any particular reason to care about her character . a more interesting and energetic performance is turned in by robert pastorelli ( eraser ) , who dutifully plays the thankless role of hurt's sidekick . surprisingly , travolta , despite his top billing , stays in the background for most of the film . michael's good for some one liners , but he's all charm without much personality . we like him because he's played by travolta , not because the script gives us any real reason to . in fact , when you consider it , he's little more than a plot device . there's an edginess to the script that is repeatedly blunted by the feel-good saccharine that the ephron sisters injected into their re-writes of pete dexter and jim quinlan's original treatment . bits of the original still come through -- michael isn't the most sympathetic of angels , for example -- but it's in conflict with the film's prevalent tone . there's a line spoken by michael that illustrates the ephrons' apparent view of life : " you can never have too much sugar . " despite scenes of travolta dancing , macdowell singing , and sparky attacking bob hoskins , michael is a surprisingly lifeless affair . it's a little too low-key to be an effective romance and a little too soft to be anything more ambitious . ultimately , it's neither offensive nor horrible ; it's just another unspectacular , uninspired entry on nora ephron's erratic resume . i can't recommend michael , but it's innocuous enough to be watchable -- provided you can summon the enthusiasm to stay awake . 
2	supposedly , just before you die , your entire life flashes before your eyes . this last game of his , perhaps , just perhaps , might even be one for the record books . then again , maybe not . directed with an inviting poignancy by sam raimi ( a simple plan ) , the movie charms with its old-fashioned story of love . costner , in one of his best performances in years , creates a character who earns our respect and our sympathy . in his subtly emotive turn as an aging superstar , he manages to make his pain palpable without ever letting things dissolve into schmaltz . still , you may want to have your handkerchief at the ready since the story has the potential to reduce you to tears as it did several in our audience . for love of the game is more a love story than a sports story . a good sports movie becomes an even better study of a man and his two loves . the chemistry between the two lovers is genuine , and their attraction rises above the sexual . " you count them ? " " that's all we do . " " have you ever got your heart broken ? " lovingly filmed by john bailey with the twinkling glow of new york at night and with the warm colors of a baseball game , the movie is invitingly sentimental and nostalgic . paced with the same slow rhythms of a baseball game itself , which will either delight or annoy you , the picture never fails to entertain . it may not belong in quite the same league as the natural or field of dreams , but it's certainly a hit . even if it may not quite be a home run , it's an awe-inspiring triple that'll have you cheering and maybe even weeping . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and some sexuality . the movie would be fine for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , was visibly bored during the movie . he gave it just a single * , complaining that it was too predicable and the flashbacks were too hard to follow . john's twin , steven , liked the movie and gave it * * * . 
1	hip . cool . chic . of course , one other term springs to mind , but it isn't nearly as complimentary . pretentious . there are times when nadja becomes too full of itself , as if the writer/director is attempting to prove that he's more than just a film maker ; he's an * artist * . hal hartley regular elina lowensohn is the title character , and her erotic , exotic portrayal of a female vampire may be the best on-screen presentation of the undead since that of bela lugosi . one pleasant aspect of nadja is that very little is played straight . much of the film is done tongue in cheek , and there are a number of sly , satirical references to the legendary dracula story . almereyda is clearly having fun with his material . filmed in sterling black-and-white interspersed with pixelvision sequences ( created using a fisher price toy camera ) , nadja is occasionally exquisite . there are scenes of stunning beauty and fevered chaos , with eerie music playing to their accompaniment . unfortunately , almereyda doesn't restrain his artsy visual inclinations , and his weird style becomes self-indulgent . used too often , even the best tricks grow tiresome . nadja is a prime example of this . and when the plot dries up an hour into the proceedings , the director apparently thinks that canny cinematography can keep things going to the end . it doesn't work , and nadja struggles to reach the final credits . smoke and mirrors only work when the audience can't see through them , but , in this picture , they're painfully obvious . david lynch's involvement in something this bizarre should surprise no one . although he never steps behind the camera , the man who made eraserhead and blue velvet is full of praise for almereyda , which is expected considering nadja's offbeat style . but where lynch's films always possessed an edge , nadja doesn't have much to recommend it beyond atmosphere , occasional playfulness , and lowensohn . as vampire movies go , this one lacks bite . 
1	the film follows potter's gimmicky style of having the characters jump into lip-synched old or contemporary french pop songs to express their private thoughts . the tale has resnais's unique touches as a director to go along with his homage . it is a satire about class differences and falling in love with the wrong person , and that there is a song in everyone's heart for every occasion . what hinders this production is that the stars are not portraying particularly engaging characters , the songs are not memorable and stand little chance of being recognized by an american audience ( the exceptions might be the edith piaf and maurice chevalier numbers ) , and the farce seems more banal than daring . yet it is not without its striking moments and charms , such as when jane birkin does a cameo and sings one of her own songs . also , the glossy amberlike photography added a very french romantic feeling to the story , while the mood of paris as being a place for love to flourish above all else , which has always been embellished in movie lore , comes through with flying colors . it also does a good job of showing you the way paris is in the 1990s and in the way ordinary people exist there . screenwriters and actors jean-pierre bacri and agnes jaoui wrote themselves the best parts . there's not a lot of bite to this satirical musical , but resnais has never made a bad film and is one of the best current french directors , if not the best . this film is not one his great ones , but it still has enough pep in its light touches to be interesting . it not only has an odd way for the characters to break into song but -- some males even sing in a female voice while some females sing in a male voice . it is also interesting in the way it examines its characters' behavior as being similar in business as in love . 
1	when you can't get sissy spacek to be your star and you get porn star marilyn chambers instead , things should become sexier . chambers is fine as rose , even though her sexual abilities are put under constraints by the conservative nature of the script . the side effect that occurs is freaky indeed -- she develops a fanged phallus under her armpit . he has some fun with this theme , taking on the subject matter with mock seriousness , showing a series of attacks caused by marilyn . there is also an incident in the porno theater , which could have been funnier . the film ably depicts the city in a panic and shows the victims foaming at the mouth , reduced to madness . these scenes are mostly played for shock value , but have a certain sophisticated humor about them and relate a concern about medical procedures , alerting us to the fact that doctors have the power to do just about anything to their patients . one of film's main faults , is that it offered no characters that we could care about , but it instead developed an offbeat story that had some kind of political message hidden in its humor . it was quite enjoyable in a less than biting way . 
2	tim burton's campily creepy sleepy hollow has great visuals and johnny depp's usual imaginative acting . a fun film , it is light-years better than the schlock horror pictures that played this past halloween , when this movie should have more appropriately opened . no , not about the gore . if you purchase a ticket to sleepy hollow and are shocked to see explicit violence in a movie about a serial decapitator , then you have only your own naive stupidity to blame . the warning is about the script and the miscasting of the female lead . kevin yagher's underdeveloped script , based on the famous washington irving story , " the legend of sleepy hollow , " has some good ideas but lacks a cohesive narrative . the script , which takes advantage of none of her signature sarcasm , offers her few opportunities to shine . the result is a bland performance in which there is no chemistry between her and depp . basically , to enjoy the show the viewers are required to ignore ricci and focus exclusively on depp and on the film's mesmerizing look . ( with sharp triangular teeth , christopher walken , in a cameo , does an hilarious , over-the-top rendition of the headless horseman . ) the marvel of depp's performance is that he encourages us to laugh with him and not at him . with shifty eyes and dramatic gestures , he lets us in on the joke . " it's okay , " he seems to be saying to us , " we know you're going to find this funny . laugh all you want and have a good time . " ah , and then there are the visuals , which are certainly worth the price of admission . the gothic village itself has a wonderfully eerie feel . emmanuel lubezki's cinematography features denuded color in some scenes and a strong steel-blue look in others . as the scenes change , " wow " is the most common reaction . it's fun , it's funny , it looks great and it's got johnny depp . what else do you need to know about the movie , anyway ? it is rated r for graphic horror violence and gore , and for a scene of sexuality and would be fine for most teenagers . 
2	" right here in this life , you get reincarnated , " says mildred . " you change . " although she is not yet a grandmother , she looks like one , albeit an extremely attractive one . mildred is played with earnest realism by gena rowlands . rowlands rejects the typical sentimental characterization for roles of this type and instead imbues mildred with a documentary style straightforwardness . as much as i admired unhook the stars , i kept thinking the film was john cassavetes-lite . this is not meant as an insult . john's actors played characters with their emotions on the edge whereas nick's characters have theirs more in check . both , however , have characters that are so real you will swear they are not acting . tomei's performance is out of character for her , but excellent . he is a serious kid who almost never speaks . less believable is his behavior , which is perfect . rather than viewing this as an imposition , mildred looks upon this as a great opportunity . perhaps the most touching scenes of the show are the ones of mildred teaching j . j . she recasts every entry in terms that j . j . can comprehend . one of the few failings of the script by helen caldwell and nick cassavetes is that they do not have a proper grasp of what is possible for a seven-year-old boy . i have one , and i know . mildred's lessons are too often couched in language for a ten-year-old . do . a ten-year-old could do this perhaps , but not a seven . still these are the only two such problems with the story . is dead-on . she says , " that's what thanksgiving is all about -- meeting friends and eating a lot . " from the time they leave the bar , the scene is a beautiful blend of subtle and touching humor . as throughout the film , it all rings true . a picture with few surprises manages to have some towards the end . even so , it is more a character study and a ( second ) coming of age film than one with a strong narrative drive . her second life may have even more promise than her first . it is rated r for strong language . the film would be fine for any teenager . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	this disney presentation of a time travel fantasy tale has the good sense not to try and spend too much time clearing up what theoretical scientists say is impossible : it is not possible to go back to the past and change history . " the kid " is a children's story but is stretched into an adult one as well . it is usually through dreams , drugs , one's creative work , psychoanalysis , or meditation that one looks back at their past , but bruce is too blocked for any of that . if one were to overlook all the impossibilities about this story and just concentrate on how the bruce willis character comes to resolve his problem , then the film is somewhat engaging . though , it is sad to say that he resolves his problem the typical macho way , by beating up his nemesis . the movie was ably directed by jon turtletaub ( while you were sleeping/phenomenon ) and written by audrey wells ( the truth about cats and dogs ) . it has a balanced mixture of adult sentimentalities and childish comedy that should bring both children and adults into the same movie theater , each finding something in the film to experience together . the idea of the film is intriguing , of a man who will live his future as he knows he should because he got to the bottom of what troubled him when he was growing up , and though the story is impossible and the self-absorbed bruce is now learning to be nice to those close to him that he has hurt before , seemed like a stretch , it is still a family-fare film with a few more ideas thrown in than the usual disney flicks . though this type of supernatural movie has been tried often ( back to the future/frequency/12 monkeys ) , this film had a nice quality to it , making it rather special . bruce willis works very well with children , he seems to be a natural , and all his previous films with children also attest to this , including his recent supernatural thriller " the sixth sense . " 
2	the cell is surrealistic grand opera as choreographed by the marquis de sade . as first-time screenwriter mark protosevich accurately points out in the press kit , he wanted to take the next step beyond the silence of the lambs . even this critic , who generally has an iron constitution after years of watching 300 films a year , was squirming in his seat on this one . taking itself completely seriously , the movie blends science fiction technology with an old fashioned hunt for a serial killer and his dying last victim . the result is an edge-of-the-seat thriller that should have been rated nc-17 but was given an r . consider the silence of the lambs as your personal benchmark . if it was too much for you , then you do not want to see the cell . other the hand , this is one of the best movies of the summer , and you can always close your eyes if you have to . it sounds silly and looks a bit ridiculous , but the story shoots for and achieves intelligent science-fiction rather than camp . the majority of the credit for the cell should go to first-time feature film director tarsem singh , who crafts audacious scenes of great visual power . he puts his background as a music video director to work , finding inventive and beautiful ways to stage scenes . paul laufer's stunning cinematography , with its dark , oversaturated colors , calls to mind another lopez film , oliver stone's u-turn . the cell's striking visuals along with its fantastical costumes absolutely mesmerize the viewers . but there is a problem . the scene of someone's intestines being slowly ripped out is not even the worst of many nightmarish incidents that we encounter . yeah , right . it looks pretty scary to the audience , so one can just imagine how frightening it would be going inside the head of a serial killer . nevertheless , the movie makes this voyage completely engrossing , like reading a book that you can't put away until you've read every page . although the movie may make you embarrassed for not having more elaborate dreams , it could also have another effect . it may make you wish that the future described in the story would get here sooner . imagine arranging for jennifer lopez to appear in your dreams with a disk that you could insert into your bed's electronics . now that would be a movie tie-in worth purchasing . it is rated r for bizarre violence and sexual images , nudity and language , but it should have been rated nc-17 . 
2	it tells of a time and a people in the south that is rarely dealt with on film . wait a minute , you are probably saying . i have seen a lot of movies about racial discrimination in the south . if you examine most of the films , you will see that they are more about whites and what bad things the whites do to the blacks . you see a lot of blacks as victims , but rarely do you see the blacks coming together for community , for support , and for fun as you do in once upon a time . . . here the whites appear periodically and serve to remind the audience of why the blacks suffered . even the whites are more realistically drawn than normal . you see how uncomfortable some of them are with the system they feel trapped in , but go along with anyway . all of this notwithstanding , the whites play a minor role in the picture , which i found totally refreshing and much more involving . other than " roots , " which was set in a different era , i do not remember a film that taught so much of what it is to be part of the black community . massive discrimination is shown certainly , but the great script adaptation ( paul w . cooper ) keeps the focus on the blacks themselves . this means the films spans the turbulent era of 1946-1962 . repugnant as it was , it did happen ; i remember . i was there . the acting is good all round , but the star of the show has to be al freeman jr . he shows great inner strength , bravery , and intelligence . you may remember him from his forceful performance as elijah muhammad in malcolm x . i liked the other actors and actresses , but none stood out for me the way his performance did . the cinematography by john simmons has the perfect nostalgic sepia look to it . the direction by tim reid has good pacing except in the middle where the show loses energy . some of the incidents chosen for illustration work much better than others so , although i really liked the film , i found it uneven . it is correctly rated pg . there is no sex , no nudity , mild violence and only a few bad words . it would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in the subject . i liked the show a lot , although i wish it were more even and had a stronger middle . i recommend this excellent show to you and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 20 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	well , as outlandish and ridiculous as the remake is , the original manages to be slightly worse . the original is a somnolent little treatise on the minutia of living near the ocean . careful never to offend anyone and taking absolutely no risks , the show meanders until is finally put to sleep by a benevolent editor ( warren adams ) . director james b . clark's specialty is children's b movies , having directed such unmemorable films as a dog of flanders , island of the blue dolphins , my side of the mountain , and the little ark . here he makes his only well known film , and why it was so successful is beyond this critic . yes , the dolphin star is photogenic , but he gets much less screen time the actors . since there really is no plot , a summary seems superfluous , but let me tell you all you need to know . needless to say , the big storm sounds ferocious but its effects are fairly tame . most scenes are of little consequence . most of the show is dominated by the loud violins whose sole purpose seems to be to anesthetize the audience . perhaps he does , but not in this show . other than flipper , who is cute , the only other aspect of the film with any merit is the cinematography by lamar boren and joseph brun . they produce warm pastel shades that give a surreal and yet nostalgic look to the sets . it is not rated , but would get a g today . there is no sex , nudity , or even mildly offensive language . he actually likes the original better than the remake , which he also likes . i hate them both , but if forced at gunpoint to watch one of them again , i'd go for the remake . at least it takes some risks and has a few imaginative scenes . i give the original just barely one * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	as a southerner , i had trouble identifying with the reality of the story , but the stereotypes were as familiar as the latest television soap opera . the script by callie khouri is full of incredulity's . how many grown daughters would use the f word while talking to their fathers ? i don't buy him being that naive . khouri does come up with a few good one liners . the best one that is printable is wyly's when he says , " i may have fooled around a little bit , but i have never cheated . " the biggest problem with the script is that we get images and cliches , but no real story that engages the viewer , makes any of the characters more than stick figures , or makes you care about any of them . director lasse hallstroem who did the wonderful my life as a dog and the terrible what's eating gilbert grape encourages all of his cast to overact . her performance was totally unbelievable and off the wall . dennis quaid who has done a few good movies like d . o . a . and great balls of fire ! , but many more stinkers like undercover blues ( the bottom on my list in 1993 ) , comes through with another embarrassing performance . imagine a hurt puppy . you get the idea . duvall , who is usually good , was given a poorly written part and did nothing interesting with it . sedgwick looked like her sister , but other than similar looks i found her performance of no value . too cutesy for my taste . granted than given the characters , the scene at that point in the picture was not believable ; nevertheless , it was a small delight in an otherwise dismal movie . they should have made a different movie and used that scene in it . nevertheless , the cinematography ( sven nykvist ) and the sets ( mel bourne ) were pretty blah . only the close up scenes before the race had any imagination . the sound had major problems in the mixing and reminded me of some of the rough cuts you hear at a preview . something to talk about meanders along at 1 : 45 because of loose editing by mia goldman . it is rated r solely for bad language . there is no sex , nudity , violence , or drugs . i do not even remember any smoking . like all good southern cliches , however , the characters all drank enough to have cirrhosis of the liver . teenagers used to bad language would be not be harmed by seeing the show . on the other hand , i recommend everyone pass on this turkey and see any other movie instead . i award it a half star since it was not totally unbearable . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : august 25 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	samantha lang's the monkey's mask is about nudity and bad poetry -- really bad poetry . the nudity is in the context of a lesbian affair that's about as convincing as a playboy photo shoot . there is also a murder mystery of sorts , but , with the film going in what feels like slow motion , you'll probably not care . if the film works for you at all , it's likely to be as a guilty pleasure for the eye candy it parades before you . so true . the director never gets a credible performance out of any of the actors . speaking of cameras , garry phillips's cinematography is the one bright spot of the movie . using a blend of extreme close-ups set off center and stunning widescreen shots , he creates a look that's much better than the material deserves . of course , the lack of chemistry in what is really a lesbian love story , not a murder mystery , is the movie's biggest problem . but beyond that there are so many smaller problems that begin to grate on you . the dialog is not only trite and overblown -- " you lesbo ! " being one insult -- but hard to catch since the actors have a proclivity for speaking only in whispers . on the other hand , maybe missing some of the lines isn't such a bad thing after all . missing the entire movie , however , would be a better idea . it is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for strong sex scenes , pervasive nudity , language and some violent images . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	in 1994 , director steve james's mesmerizing documentary hoop dreams was on the top of my best of the year list as well as on the top of both siskel's and ebert's . unlike many other films examining that era's racial strife , ghosts of mississippi for example , passing glory keeps the focus on the blacks and their struggle , rather giving most of the screen time to white racists . the prejudice of most of the whites in the area is compellingly presented , but they are not allowed to dominate the picture . braugher so naturally fits the part of the real-life father verrett , that he gives the picture an almost documentary realism . " i believe sports are overemphasized . " the film includes many tangible examples of the racism then present . ( i can remember the " coloreds only " signs from my childhood , although , where i grew up , they were taken away a half decade earlier than in this movie . ) the simple but powerful script by harold sylvester -- james said that john sayles helped with one of the rewrites -- is filled with lines of honest beauty . although most of the action in the movie happens off the courts , the basketball sequences are masterfully and excitingly presented . in the inevitable big game that ends the movie , there is an extremely controversial edit . with a big grin , he said that when he read the script he thought this works great in print but cinematically it'll never work . the director thought the cut was essential to his vision , and paul said the director was right . the director's whole movie is " right . " i can't wait for steve james's next picture . it is not rated but would perhaps be pg-13 for some profanity and mature themes and would be excellent for kids around 12 and up . 
0	a showtime original movie that results in a very strained comedy/mystery story , one that is more stupid than offbeat and less noir than in the mode of a sophomoric film school work . it tries so hard to waver between reality and being completely off-the-wall , until it succumbs to being mostly annoying and far too cute looking for it to be appealing , yet not funny enough to be worth the effort of setting up such an inane story . i can only recommend it for those who want to see amanda plummer perform her magical acting ability as a psychic . she can do no wrong , no matter how rotten this made-for-tv film is or how ridiculous her part is , as she sticks out like a rose in a weed garden , plying her talents as a sex-craved psychic for the police . the wonder view apartments has a swimming pool that is polluted with slime and filled with debris and it has an assortment of odd and annoying tenants , from wise guy roller skaters to corny lovebirds . all the while , the story revolves around stan's study of psychology in the sterile college atmosphere , where rats are experimented in a maze to study human behavior , which is compared to how invigorating it is to study people's behavior in a real setting , as he finds people in this setting act the same way the rats behave in a maze . this might have been funny , if there was some credulity to their picking on the dumbfounded stan , who has an airtight alibi . but the film defeated itself by trying to be both real and absurd , thereby nothing caught fire , it all seemed like every man and woman was out for themselves to see if they can get a laugh somehow from a story that was going nowhere . the film failed doubly , both as a comedy and as a mystery . there were so many gaps in the story , that one can easily make a case that nothing made sense and what was funny , was merely only silly . this is a low point in storytelling , as the director has failed to keep this shallow film above even the low water mark it set for itself . 
2	this is a come to your own conclusion movie , that might be a big let down if you were expecting to see the fable that is presented here come to a necessary resolution , but it is a film that gets better as you step away from it and realize how much intellectual weight there actually was in the telling of its austere story . whatever badii is searching for , this basically is still a philosophical movie , that asks people what is it that they want to get out of life and are they prepared to do something to ensure for themselves a happiness that hasn't been prescribed to them . it also indirectly asks the question , why would any one in good health and being sane , want to kill themselves . if i reply , help me out of the hole . if i don't , cover my body with 20 spadefuls of dirt . we don't really know the reason mr . badii wants to die and we know almost nothing about his personal life , except when he mentions to the poor seminarian he is trying to recruit for the job , that you don't know how someone else feels , you may be able to sympathize with them , but you could never understand their pain . but again , we can only guess at who he is and why he wants to commit suicide , to the director it is obviously not that important , or else he would have provided us with more information . he probably thought like i did , at first , that badii was a pervert trying to pick him up . again , the contrast between the men' silence and the noise from their work is explored . but he cannot do it for the reason that the moslem religion does not permit suicide , and badii's cogent argument , that sometimes by staying alive you do more harm to others than by dying , just falls on deaf ears . mr . bagheri ( baghieri ) is a turk , who talks incessantly , giving the film its lyrical voice it badly needed to counterpoint the tremendously impressive visual scope the film has so far counted on to give it its artistic touch , with its long shots of the barren mountain terrain the soldiers train on and where the workers spend their life on , and its close-ups on badii in his vehicle . then he asks badii , don't you want to taste the cherry ? don't you want to see the dawn and the beauty of the sunset , and the stars and the moon ? as he offers logical reasons for staying alive , that are indisputable . kiarostami' point is that all women are meant to be demeaned by such rigid laws of the state . films are meant to pose questions and not tell stories , is what the director is now telling us , since questions are more important to him , than anything else , they make us think harder about the things we do . my thought about the death of the linear film , as pronounced by the director , is that , if all you did was ask questions , as valuable as they are in the process of educating yourself , you would still end up being the idiot questioner , if that is all you did , question everything , because somewhere along the line , if you are honest with yourself , you will have to take a stand and state what it is you believe , and that statement might come across best in a linear story or some other film format , and not by posing more questions and becoming dogmatic about how a film should be made . why kiarostami might resort to this form of filmmaking , at least for this film , could have something to do with iran's repressive government and their long list of intolerances , that if he openly criticized them , it would probably result in no more kiarostami films for foreigners to adore . i'm a little reluctant to accept any one way of making films , as being the vade mecum of filmmaking , you just try to do what you can , if the film has a magic to it , it will work . i thought the ending of the film was not only a cop out , you don't know for sure if mr . badii committed suicide or not , but it also took the air out of the story's power and made it seem like a tease someone plays on you , first getting your hopes up and then going back on their word . kiarostami was having fun with the audience , and if you weren't in the mood for his jokes , then you might have thought like i did , that it was just too contrived and took away a very good experience i was having , with my imagination working on all cylinders , stimulated by the complexity of the problems raised ; and , by ending the film on that false note , and shooting it on video instead of film , it made it seem to me as if this was not a totally-serious attempt to look at ourselves and the society we live in , as i originally thought it was . if kiarostami thought i needed a break at that point of the film , that i was forgetting that it was just a film i was seeing , then he miscalculated how i felt . but i still believe the film had a potent political message that was delivered subterraneously , a message that is meant to shake us out of the habitual way we look at life ( and at film ) , and fail to recognize how important our dreamworld really is to us . and , in any case , i know from my past experiences with great filmmakers , that sometimes i don't like what i see from them the first time and later on change my mind and see more clearly what they were doing . so i'll leave open the option that my distaste for the film's ending will be subject to change , that is , if that is meant to be so . 
2	screenplay : philip lazebnik . producers : penny finkelman cox and sandra rabins . mpaa rating : pg ( adult themes ) running time : 97 minutes . there's precaution , and then there's what dreamworks has done to insure that the prince of egypt would not become a lightning rod for controversy . religious leaders were consulted on early drafts of the script ; word went forth that this would be a serious , respectful dramatic film with no disney-style animals for comic relief . the film-makers even attached an opening disclaimer about " artistic license " taken with the story , which also referred viewers to the book of exodus for the biblical story of moses . the public relations message has been strong and consistent : befitting its subject matter , the prince of egypt would be a different sort of animated film . in some very important ways , that message was completely accurate . while god is certainly present in the film , the religious elements have been subsumed to the human elements . it's a tricky element to introduce -- that we should care about a personal tragedy in this tale of god's commitment to the hebrews -- but it works to give the film the feel of a mature drama rather than just another animated fairy tale . with such a strong foundation , it becomes distracting when the prince of egypt adopts the rhythms and songs of a typical animated musical . stephen schwartz's tunes are generally solid , but it becomes too easy to think of the film as nothing special when the structure ventures into such familiar territory . there's no need for a biblical epic to turn into " les miserables , " or the old testament equivalent of " jesus christ superstar " , particularly when the images unaccompanied by music are so compelling . there's enough story to this story , and enough vision to the animation , not to require a tune every 10 minutes . in a way , the inclusion of musical numbers could have been an attempt to make the prince of egypt a transitional form of feature animation . it was no surprise to find a screening audience filled with children ; it was , however , something of a surprise to notice them so engaged in such a somber , challenging story . perhaps the songs , and the occasional flashes of humor , served to ease younger viewers into something not so far removed from the videos that line their parents' shelves . dreamworks tackled an incredibly challenging task in the prince of egypt , the task of turning scripture into family entertainment . it's about as successful a conclusion to that task as i can imagine , one which combines tradition and imagination into a powerful animated experience . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	still gordon has a problem with which many will be able to identify . his poetry shows up in his advertising copy , but that is not enough for gordon . " poetry , advertising -- it's all the same words only in different order , " he argues . the enthralling movie has broad appeal from dilbert fans to romantics . the movie argues convincingly that we should all follow our hearts and our passions when it comes to work and to love . as the tenacious gordon comstock , richard e . grant shows the frustrations and the joys of one embarking on a tricky journey , trying to make money at something one really cares about . the bitingly funny script tells it like it is , while always displaying a big heart . " professionally speaking , you've entered a totally blind alley . " even if such jobs are common place , it isn't often that the boss tells you this during the hiring interview . lovingly directed by robert bierman , the film contains wonderfully evocative music by mike batt . inviting and magically happy , the music with its warm nostalgic feeling matches perfectly the handsome , 1930s sets and the golden cinematography . the little story meanders delightfully like a small brook cutting through lush fields . romantic , poignant , and exhilarating , the movie always rings true . with little laughs around every turn the film is as easy to watch as it is subtly substantial . it is full of messages without ever seeming to have many . " you can't beat that for value . " and this charming little movie gives full value from its beginning to its happy ending . " remember , " rosemary reminds gordon . follow your dreams , argues the movie , and you will be free . it is not rated but probably would be pg-13 for sexual situations . the film would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
2	mulan , which we saw being developed in disney's florida studios , is the first disney animated movie produced on the east coast . the impressive result , although not as spectacular as some of disney's recent offerings , bodes well for this isolated , creative team . filmed in medium blues with warm rose accents , the animation is handsome albeit not up to standards of the lion king . best in the crowd sequences , the movie has a most awe-inspiring visual of an attacking horde of huns , with hundreds of bluish-gray men charging over a snow-covered landscape . although the film's images are sumptuous , its songs are all eminently forgettable . mulan fails miserably even with a cheat sheet of the right answers written on her arm . eddie murphy , who mumbles too many of his lines , plays the dragon , mushu . the energetic murphy tries to be robin williams , but murphy's lines aren't anywhere near aladdin quality . the recruits try to out macho each other with lines like , " i'm going to hit you so hard it will make your ancestors dizzy . " with shades of g . i . jane , mulan soon goes from being a walking disaster to being the star pupil . mulan doesn't reject her feminine side . " just because i look like a man doesn't mean i have to smell like one , " she says before skinny-dipping in the closest stream . the film's message is easily seen in the big hun battle . it is rated g and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the film * * * . he thought the dragon was really funny and the film's ending especially good . his buddy , nickolas , age 9 , gave the picture * * ? . he liked the way mulan always thought of new ideas , but he thought parts of the story dragged . 
1	paul davids's documentary about timothy leary , the canonical 60s radical and proponent of the drug culture , is as fascinating as it is one-sided . the title , timothy leary's dead , is taken from the name of a once popular song , which is one of the better songs on the movie's soundtrack . in the future it's not going to be what book you read , but what chemical do you use to open your mind to accelerate learning . " ) the film has brief segments with a uniformed cop and with an author to state the case that hard drugs are not good for you . the film does provide an effective study of radical non- conformity . the players in this tragedy are not ghetto dwellers , but rich kids and adults . exactly how they pulled off that miracle is never explained . although the film suffers from repetition , the candid interviews are mesmerizing in their naivete . the grainy , black and white , old video clips and the songs recreate an era that many have forgotten or never knew . the most shocking aspect of the film is not the ideas pontificated , but the picture's ending . it seems that leary , with his inflated view of the power of his brain , wanted his head frozen so his brain could be preserved for future generations . and it is as horrific as it sounds . it is not rated but would be r or perhaps nc-17 . it contains nudity , drug usage and discussion , and a gory operation . it is not a film for teenagers as the happy high priest and his friends could easily leave the impression on less questioning minds that drugs are pretty cool after all . i recommend the documentary to adults who will probably be as surprised and engrossed by it as i was . i give it * * 1/2 . with less repetition and a more balanced treatment , i could have easily rated it higher . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 21 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	the problem with the film , as an original and diverting story as it is , is that it is also too confusing to follow and suffers from a sense that it is too " hip " for its own good . but even as the film failed to add up to being as good as it could have been , it was still entertaining and visually engaging . i began to enjoy the film more for its style , which is the only way to view it . it was shot in such exacting detail , its colorful sets becoming a feast for the eyes that were ready to experience visions not seen in other sci-fi films , it also allowed for a certain pleasure to be induced from overhearing the odd conversations that were inane but fun to listen to . fox's haiku is a good example of the meaningful nonsense the film conveyed , as he recites to x the poem he just wrote : but something mysterious soon happens and the last 20 minutes of the film repeats what happened so far , but adding new details and a different way of looking at it . the murky ending will not be pleasing to most viewers , as they try to make sense of what is happening . 
1	keitel , if you stretch your gullability a bit , is a great american film director , returning to his native greece after 35- years in the states . what fascinates him , is that they saw the century come in with its hopes and aspirations , they were not politically motivated , but were interested in recording what went on with the people and the times they lived in , what was right and wrong about those times , regardless of the mess that resulted from the mistakes the politicians made . this is an ostentacious and mesmerizing film , about a film director's obsession with the importance film plays in recording history . it is also a film that is bleak and despairing , as it goes on its long and weary journey over hostile territories , where governments could never be anything but inhumane and where revolutions were betrayed and costly . this allows us to see what the director saw as a child . again , it is a homage to how important it is to record history so that it cannot be forgotten . this allows for the film to wax poetic , to become a meditation on the landscape , to indulge our sense of the incomprehensible , as we see what the film-maker is seeing ; we all become foreigners in this eeriness , in this lost century , where the truth has been maimed . its images are always powerful , even if the dialogue seems superfluous and banal . it is starkly photographed in the fog and in the rubble torn buildings where the people barely exist , as they remain there , hoping for miracles to get them by . the fog is the only place normalcy is allowed to be , and even here , the dangers are always in the background . that is the message delivered , from this politically motivated and visually aesthetic film , full of emotion and bereavement for what could have been , but is now ruined by blind hatred . the film is tiresome , at times , too cliche ridden for the potent message it delivers for it be as great as its cinematography is . 
2	or it's a huge , sick joke at the audience's expense . or maybe it's both . you can't really put any motivation past lars von trier , a director whose fondness for rendering his own name in block letters four times larger than the film's title belies a certain streak of ego . this is a man who decided to write the rules for a new aesthetic of minimalist cinema with his dogme '95 manifesto , then proceeded to break all those rules by making a live-action musical . it has become clear that you can predict virtually nothing about the way von trier will try to make a movie , except that it will inspire extreme emotions . you may want to gasp , or cry , or smack him silly for dragging you along on his exercises in self-indulgence . only musicals can temporarily distract selma from her mission -- watching one in a movie theater , performing in one in a local theatrical production , or imagining that the world around her is turning into one when life gets particularly grim . the grimness of selma's life is rendered in von trier's favored washed-out morph of film and digital video -- big risk #1 -- but it's a tactical blunder for this particular script . dancer in the dark is fashioned as a melodrama , with developments that pit our morally pure heroine against dastardly forces . on glossy celluloid , such an old-fashioned narrative approach might have worked . the hand-held , documentary-style of dancer in the dark , however , demands a level of depth in the characters' motivations and relationships that isn't always there . that's time that could have been much better spent on the underdeveloped relationship between selma and gene , which should be central to the film . it would have been possible to turn selma's conflicted motivations into a compelling plot point . instead , it's still often dizzying , chilling and more engrossing than virtually any other film this year . big risk #2 was the casting of bjork as selma , and it's hard to do justice to how extraordinary her performance is . while her less-than-authentic czech accent occasionally distracts , she hits every emotional note with such resonance that it's painful to watch her . and as painful as it is to watch , it's equally impossible not to watch when big risk #3 -- the musical production numbers -- kicks in . they're rendered as brightly-colored interpretations of selma's interior life , inspired by the natural rhythms of a train's wheels , machinery and a record's run-out groove . undoubtedly some viewers will find it impossible to get past the contrivance , or past bjork's distinctive yodeling vocals . others will be transfixed by the image of a killer fantasizing the forgiveness of the victim , or the most abruptly concluded musical number in film history . many critics have already noted that dancer in the dark bears more than a passing resemblance to von trier's 1996 film breaking the waves in its focus on the trials of a beatific female martyr . indeed , selma's sacrifice is not set up nearly so convincingly as that of emily watson's bess , which can only make dancer seem to suffer by comparison . that doesn't diminish what von trier is able to accomplish this time around with another spectacular performance and more giddy disregard for expectations and conventions . dancer in the dark is a deeply flawed narrative that becomes a long sit during its third act ; it's also studded with several moments of jaw-dropping brilliance . it's the work of a director who'll do anything to inspire a reaction . in a world of overly sanitized cinema , it's hard to dismiss that kind of raw nerve . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	it answers in the affirmative . the screenplay by richard lagravenese is based on the novel by robert james waller that the entire western world except me has read , reread and cried themselves to sleep with . the movie is the story of this affair . we are talking serious , romantic , long lasting stuff here , not your usual sexual fling that hollywood is so fond of . most of the plot is predicable after the initial setup and that is okay . the point is not to guess the next plot twist , but to identify with the characters and vicariously live their romance and have that illicit fling you subconsciously always wanted . i thought the plot outline was wonderful , but i found the writing pretty leaden most of the time with sporadic poetic or more lively parts . i think i would have hated the novel , but maybe not . the outdoor scenes were easy to make picture card perfect and serene . wonderful , radiant glows filled the house . watching it was like drinking a warm cup of earl grey tea . it filled your body with contentment . the directing ( clint eastwood ) and the editing is of the slow and dreamy school of movie making . lots of silence or throw away dialog so that the characters can just sit around and stare romantically into each other's eyes . the pacing found me checking my watch frequently . i would not recommend the late showing , you may fall asleep in the slow parts . there are several precious scenes in the show . there is a romantic walk after dark that has a great mood to it . the chirping crickets really add to the ambiance . as a contrast , the scene in the local coffee shop is quite an eye opener and nicely done . the acting by eastwood is the best in the movie . he plays a more quiet and sensitive character than i have ever seen him play before . her accent was unnecessary and a major detraction . it was a parody of sophie's choice , but with a different european accent , except they both sounded the same . whereas eastwood's performance was convincing , i did not buy streep's . all this notwithstanding , you can count on her getting an academy award nomination for it . for a much better performance by streep having an affair , see faling in love . in it , she has genuine chemistry with robert de niro and does not use her one-size-fits-all european accent . the minor characters were good . better editing would have vastly increased my enjoyment as would having streep lose that fake accent . the movie is rated pg-13 for subtle lovemaking . it is fine for teenagers and probably kids 10 and up . for many special scenes , i give the picture a mild thumbs up regardless of its irritations , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 2 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	starring : sihung lung , chien-lien wu , kuie-mei yang , yu-wen wang , ah-leh gua , jui wang , winston chao . screenplay : hui-ling wang , james schamus and ang lee . director : ang lee . issues of quality aside , this is the best advice i can give to anyone considering seeing ang lee's eat drink man woman : do * not * see it on an empty stomach . also like that earlier film , it is about much more than recipes . eat drink man woman , like lee's oscar-nominated 1993 film the wedding banquet , is a story of generational conflict , a witty and emotionally involving tale in which food plays a pivotal role in observations on a changing chinese culture . eat drink man woman also explores romantic relationships in this context of generational change , and there it is less consistently successful . each of the four main characters is given a subplot , and like old chu's dinners the film begins to seem like there is a bit too much to consume in one sitting . the youngest daughter's story is particularly weak , and the film might have been more effective if her character had been dropped entirely . otherwise , solid acting makes for some affecting stories . sihung lung , so good as the father in the wedding banquet , is again taciturn without being one-note , and provides a solid anchor for the film . the best story belongs to kuei-mei yang's jia-jen , and she does a magnificent job of playing all of jia-jen's buried emotions at just the right level . i was not a huge fan of the wedding banquet ; i felt it was inconsistently paced , and that its weak lead performances hindered its emotional pull . though it runs a bit long , eat drink man woman is a warm and keenly observed character piece , filled with mostly exceptional performances . see it as it makes its way to your town . 
1	we've seen this story so many times that it's starting to wear thin . in many ways , kicking and screaming is mildly enjoyable , but all it really does is go over old ground with new characters . much of kicking and screaming's appeal results from its cast . and what would any gen x picture be without the presence of the ubiquitous eric stoltz ? as it turns out , none of the characters are able to make a clean break . the characters are all pretty likable , and it's not too hard to sympathize with their situation--at least until their social paralysis becomes irritating . but kicking and screaming is essentially a film of moments . much of the dialogue is crisp , and there are several individual scenes that work to near-perfection ( most notably the flashbacks that detail the building of grover and jane's relationship ) , but the connecting material is weak . above all , the movie comes to a conclusion without a sense of closure . kicking and screaming is often witty , occasionally hilarious , and ultimately bittersweet . but , in the final analysis , there's not much here that's original or insightful . this is essentially the story of a group of post-college slackers wrestling with life's many , varied tribulations--not exactly virgin ground for '90s film makers . and , in this case , what's on screen is just a little too familiar to be worth lauding . 
1	cast : jean-chretien sibertin-blanc , stephanie zhang , nora habib , thierry lhermitte , guy casabonne director : anne fontaine producers : brigitte faure and philippe jacquier screenplay : anne fontaine cinematography : jean marie dreujou u . s . distributor : kino international in french with subtitles augustin reminds me of a scene in richard linklater's before sunrise . in many ways , that's what augustin is , although its running time is a whole lot shorter than what jesse suggests . but anne fontaine's film is devoted to the minutiae of everyday living , as it gives us an hour-long portrait of a dull , unimportant frenchman . strange material , indeed . . . augustin doesn't have much of a plot . it's an unusual , cinema verite-style character study that takes place over a several-day period . the film is oddly engrossing , even though much of its content is centered around ordinary activities ( the hotel-cleaning scene takes up over a quarter of the length ) . when augustin works , it's largely because of the performance of lead actor jean-chretien sibertin-blanc , who invests his character--a weasely neurotic--with a certain likability . augustin is basically a creep , but sibertin-blanc manages the difficult task of capturing the audience's sympathy . it's not easy to like a character like this , but , in this movie , it happens . the script is full of wry little insights into life , and there are times when it's vaguely reminiscent of something by woody allen . the comic tone is uneven , and there are few laugh aloud moments , but augustin possesses a sardonic wit . those interested in this kind of quirky character dissection will find augustin refreshing , and the film's brevity is a definite plus . more time with this person would have been tiresome . 
2	this one has a reflective mood and a quiet sparseness to it , that gives its lonely characters a chance to either grow as the story develops or for them to become clearer about who they are and what they are doing . las vegas can arguably be , america's alter-ego , even if , that city is a sharp contrast to what the rest of the country is like . but it does offer a lure for foreign and american visitors to see how the free wheeling , capitalist country , they imagine america to be , operates , when it lets its puritanical hair down . how to do it smartly , with class . while , melville's film , retains an almost unbelievable lightness to it . it gives me great delight to see the casino get ripped off , as john works his $150 into $2 , 000 worth of credit and a free room and amenities . i wonder if this scam really works ! ! ! the acting is more than credible , it is superb , as it is just right for the atmosphere it sets . the sparse dialogue helps give the story an intensity that is riveting , giving off the impression that there is something deeper happening than there is . the characters make this film happen . it is a good first effort by the director , who has told a tight story and told it well , holding our interest with a fresh approach to an old story . 
2	cast : fedja van huet , jan decleir , betty schuurman , victor low , tamar van den dop , hans kesting director : mike van diem producer : laurens geels screenplay : mike van diem , laurens geels , ruud van megen based on the novel by ferdinand bordewijk cinematography : rogier stoffers music : paleis van boem u . s . distributor : sony pictures classics in duch with subtitles character , the winner of the 1998 oscar for best foreign language film , is a fine motion picture about the relationships within a dysfunctional family in the netherlands during the 1930s . even though the movie is set three-quarters of a century after charles dickens penned his final novel , character has the feel of something written by the beloved victorian author , with perhaps a little franz kafka mixed in for good measure . although katadreuffe is character's protagonist , the most fascinating individual in the film is dreverhaven , who is played with a combination of malice and world-weariness by veteran actor jan decleir ( antonia's line ) . dreverhaven's motives are far more complex than those of a typical villain . his feelings towards his son are unclear -- a mixture of shame , anger , bitterness , and , curiously , perhaps even pride . actually , as it turns out , dreverhaven doesn't have a future . unfortunately , this approach allows director mike van diem to employ one of my least-liked narrative techniques -- the voice-over . and , as is almost always the case with this device , it is overused . while character tells an interesting story with well-developed characters , its academy awards victory is somewhat irksome , since i found it to be inferior to fellow nominee , beyond silence . since both films are destined to receive some sort of distribution , viewers will be able to decide for themselves which is the better movie . however , regardless of which one you prefer , one thing is certainly clear : character and beyond silence offer the kind of emotional depth and resonance that has become rare in hollywood productions . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	" have you ever felt like you're not in control of your life ? " robert , you see , has been having a hard time coping lately . it seems a robot could do his work cheaper and faster . celine , a more than slightly deranged rich kid , favors such pastimes as using big guns to shoot apples off her butler's head . diaz has delighted audiences in little films like the last supper as well as in glitzy productions such as my best friends wedding with a wide acting range from bitingly bitchy to cloyingly sweet . in all of them her charm never fades . in a nice bit of complementary casting , mcgregor plays opposite diaz . diaz even manages to keep a straight face when celine gets lines like , " love is merely a physical adaptation to an emotional necessity . " as interesting as the plot setup is and as fine as the performances are by the leads , the film limps along at best . director danny boyle , in his first movie since his hit comedy about heroin addicts , trainspotting , has trouble staging compelling scenes . with the remarkably unfunny script by john hodge , who also worked on trainspotting , the storyline becomes little more than bizarre . the subplot of their using dastardly means to force the two leads into true love probably sounded promising on paper , but as delivered , it is as flat and uninviting as the rest of the film . with such a hopelessly underdeveloped and muddled plot , the most surprising aspect of the picture is that diaz and mcgregor remain unscathed . even if you hate the film , which is quite likely , you leave admiring two troopers who poured their hearts and souls into a hopeless project . in the film's single totally captivating moment , a delightful musical number with the two of them singing and dancing to a karaoke playing " beyond the sea , " diaz and mcgregor are able to show what the chemistry between them could have produced . but the film , a life less ordinary , is exactly that . ordinary would have been an improvement . a life less ordinary runs 1 : 43 . it is rated r for violence and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
0	director : peter ho-sun chan . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes , sexual situations ) running time : 89 minutes . to your list of absolute cinematic oxymorons -- you know , like " pauly shore comedy " or " keanu reeves performance " -- please add the following : " bittersweet farce . " that's the disastrous combination served up by the love letter , a film that fairly screams for a more frivolous treatment . that might have been a clever , breezy entertainment , something considerably less labored than the mess delivered by screenwriter maria maggenti ( from cathleen schine's novel ) and director peter ho-sun chan . if maggenti and chan had offered some characters remotely resembling three-dimensional people , it might even have worked . the love letter makes no effort whatsoever to explain johnny's interest in helen , spends about thirty seconds establishing janet as little more than comic relief before creating a blink-and-you'll-miss-it sub-plot regarding her jealousy of helen , and wraps up with an out-of-left-field relationship between two characters about whom we know virtually nothing . even capshaw's helen , the film's center , is an enigma . for a film that apparently wants you to care who ends up with whom , the love letter gives you none of the tools to do so . it's a whodunnit with no clues . somehow , in the middle of this clumsy confection , one genuinely interesting character appears . as jennifer , another employee of helen's who dotes on unrequitedly on johnny , julianne nicholson is wonderfully sweet and achingly self-conscious . the troublie is , she's the only character in the film who belongs in such a story . everyone else plays the kind of functional , cardboard role you'd expect to find in . . . well , a farce about a love letter of unknown authorship changing hands indiscriminately . there's not a solid laugh to be found in this pretty to look at but ill-conceived romantic comedy , except at the idea that someone thought a bittersweet farce could work . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	wolf is an excellent movie directed by mike nichols . it is not a horror show although there are some pretty gruesome images . it is not a story about big business although that is the underlying subtext of the entire plot . what is it then ? i think it is a character study of two people's relationship somewhat with each other , but more with life . the acting of a young slimeball by spader is right on the mark . plummer plays his usual bad guy , nothing special . nelligan has a not very well written role as the wife but does a plausible job . the star of the show for me was pfeiffer . maybe if they made him up to look a bit younger and he had lost 20 pounds , i could have believed it was him leaping so high and far . don't get me wrong , i liked him in it , and he did his best , still i think the role was badly miscast . it gets an r rating for blood and gore . teenagers will should be able to see it and will probably like it . i rate it * * * ( almost gave it more ) , and i recommend it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 21 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	if you turn on the evening news these days , one of the first images you're likely to see will originate from the devastated former yugoslavia , where centuries-old hatreds have boiled over to ignite a scenario of unspeakable horror . yet the sights of bosnia , presented by tv as gruesomely tantalizing tidbits of violence and death , rarely provoke a reaction from the casual viewer . that's how it has always been with television news programs , however -- their coverage of any event , designed for those with limited attention spans , is superficial in the extreme . it's nearly impossible to generate any strong feeling for a situation , no matter how cruel or inhumane it is , when all you get is a quick series of mtv-like clips . so , when it comes to the weightier matters of life , movies often step in where " real life " television leaves off . films like the killing fields , apocalypse now , platoon , beyond rangoon , heaven and earth , before the rain , cry the beloved country , schindler's list , and dozens of others have gone " behind the scenes " of a news story to animate it , often in gut-wrenching detail . sure , all those motion pictures are , to one degree or another , fictionalized accounts of war and/or social injustice , but they give form to the tragedy . through their characters , who come to mean something to the viewer , the indifferent images of tv take on a personal aspect . this is exactly the intent of vukovar poste restante , a rare , even-handed account of the conflict ripping apart bosnia . this tale of loss , anguish , horror , and futility is powerful beyond words . now , fewer than 3000 survivors remain . it's a sobering consideration to recognize that the background of this picture is not a movie set . often during vukovar , the line between documentary and fiction becomes very blurred . make no mistake , however -- vukovar is not a sterile examination of the evils of war , nor is it a political diatribe . at times , the musical score is almost operatic in nature , borrowing heavily from , among others , mozart . for ana , it is a time of great personal loss . but the film makers hail from bosnia , and vukovar has no more joy in it than current events permit . it is a grim story , but hardly more so than schindler's list . the biggest difference , of course , is the separate historical contexts into which the films fit : the reality of schindler's list is past ; the reality of vukovar goes on , and , if this movie and the short tv news snippets can be believed , the end may not be as close as the signing of a peace treaty . distributors like miramax and fine line have shied away from vukovar , fearing a repeat of what occurred with 1995's before the rain , a similarly-themed movie that died at the box office . but vukovar is a far more devastating experience , and those who do not avoid emotionally- draining features should rejoice that this one , a film festival darling ( twelve awards in thirty-five entries ) , will receive national distribution ( albeit of a limited sort ) . a stunning composition of fact and fiction , vukovar deserves every accolade it collects . yet perhaps the most telling point is that nearly every showing concludes with a nonplused audience sitting in unbroken silence through the end credits . 
1	screenplay : jerome armstrong and billy ray . producers : neal h . moritz and andrew z . davis . director : mick jackson . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , violence , adult themes ) running time : 103 minutes . it's hard to believe it has been over two and a half months since the last volcano movie hit north american screens ; it seems like only , gosh , seven or eight weeks . 20th century fox is banking on the fact that lava's lovelier the second time around , rolling out volcano as an april preview to the summer movie season , but whether or not it works depends on what you're looking for in your disaster movies . dante's peak was frequently dumb and predictable , but it also delivered suspense down the stretch in well-packaged bursts . volcano is less chained to convention , a bit more clever , and boasts a more talented cast . it is also more about spectacle than suspense , a very impressive production which is easier to enjoy from a detached distance than it is to get caught up in . there are certain elements you have come to expect in a film of this kind , and volcano delivers all of them : intransigent bureaucrats who end up making a bad situation worse , a hero whose personal life is given equal footing with large-scale destruction , pets which make improbable escapes . fortunately , the script by jerome armstrong and billy ray offers a few variations on those themes along the way . the dialogue sometimes does get stilted and heavy-handed , and a few of the sub-plots -- including one involving a self-absorbed real estate developer ( john corbett ) -- are abandoned mid-stream without any fanfare . apparently someone realized that a fast pace and minimal exposition make for a better disaster . that doesn't prevent the writers from attempting some clumsy stabs at social commentary , which are notable largely because they are among the few attempts at making the film specific to l . a . as dopey as the tag line " the coast is toast " may be , it showed that the marketing people understood one of the more appealing elements of volcano's premise : people want to get a perverse charge out of watching tinseltown become tindertown . volcano could have used more of a sense of place , more recognizable landmarks like the angelyne billboard turned into briquets . sure , it's wonderful that racially-fragmented los angelenos become one big ashen can't-we-all-just-get-along family when forced to work together for the common weal , but be honest . wouldn't you rather see lava creeping up on a trademark l . a . traffic jam or chasing an army of suddenly less mellow in-line skaters through santa monica , instead of crawling like fluorescent tapioca down wilshire ? which is not to say that the fluorescent tapioca in question isn't extremely impressive . in fact , there are a lot of impressive visuals in volcano , including tactically launched lava bombs and a dizzying array of explosions . the pyrotechnicians earn every cent of their pay in volcano , but the imagery could have been accompanied by more tense set pieces . however , that's one of the rare moments when anyone seems to be in any genuine peril . i love l . a . , too , though i might have preferred it even more well-done . 
0	an enjoyable b- movie but not quite as good as its reputation suggests it would be . if you can suspend critical judgment regarding the thinness of the story and the robotic acting and taut dialogue that should have been made funnier instead of playing it so straight , then you should be in a receptive mood for what the 1950s took for schlock cyberspace . we are in the prime time of hardened cold war attitudes , which are bristling with military solutions and a case of good old paranoia to keep us on our toes . so what better or easier target for all our pent up anxieties , than for the martians to be the bad guys . now there might be just as many people in this country who believe in flying saucers as there are who don't , so when we see a flying saucer land in someone's backyard and disappear in the ground , the film is on familiar sci-fi turf . in this cheapie production , he makes the most of the sets he created , and in the final battle scenes between the army and the martians , they look good enough to add a certain amount of necessary chills to the film . anyway , life on mars doesn't seem so hot , so why not come to america the land of opportunuty , a haven for those seeking a better life . the only thing serious about this movie , is that it was done in a serious manner . aside from that , it's a harmless tingler with enough thrills in it to make it pleasantly watchable . it is one of those movies where you can find enough in it to think it wasn't so bad ; and , it really wasn't so bad when you come to think about it . the most interesting part of it , is that it gives you a clear view of 1950s attitudes . it reflected a time that was much different from the way things are now : parents spoke to their children in a respectful manner and vice versa , there was a na ? vet ? in its political concerns , and it idealized the small town concepts of america . there are many old-timers who wish america could return to those simpler times . . . even though those times had masked the bigger problems they couldn't face , the problems that blew up in the '60s and changed the language and attitudes of the country . this film was made 46 years ago but seems as if it came from a nostalgic time that will never be with us again . it is worth seeing mainly for those reasons . 
0	screenplay : lowell ganz and babaloo mandel . i prefer my comedy with an edge . the war of the roses , ruthless people , and tv's " the simpsons " show that sometimes nothing is funnier than human nature at its nastiest . it is also the case that few comedy conventions irritate me more than starting with an edge and progressively dulling it with warm-fuzziness . so here comes greedy , a promising enough comedy about avaricious relatives , but that fact that it was written by the popular team of lowell ganz and babaloo mandel ( splash , parenthood , city slickers ) should have clued me in that it wouldn't go for the jugular . there are fewer big laughs than in any of those films , as a largely uninteresting cast tries gamely to support a limp story . when it did work , greedy let its nasty characters be their nastiest . unfortunately , none of the laughs are as big as they could have been , and that's primarily because ganz and mandel don't provide their characters with distinct personalities , except for siobhan fallon's horrendously overboard drunk as hartman's wife . they're all sort of interchangeably grasping , and hartman , begley and burns don't have enough manic energy on their own . while several of the lines are funny , none of the characters is funny enough to give them a big push . after that early scene , greedy loses almost all of the bite it might have had . either director jonathan lynn or fox himself wouldn't completely allow danny to get nasty . greedy wimps out when it should be emphasizing lust for money is damaging its characters . a simpler and more relevant criticism of greedy is that it really doesn't do anything new . greedy relatives and fights for an inheritance are film staples , and most previous attempts have handled the subject better . greedy does offer a few giggles , but they get buried under a fairly self-evident message and a slow , unoriginal story . greedy is like a bottle of acid diluted in far too much water : it's just not corrosive enough . 
2	in one sense , there is a commonality between susan seidelman's oscar-nominated short ( the movie is less than 30 minutes long ) and john duigan's sirens - both narratives revolve around a sexually-motivated realization that forever alters the life of a female protagonist . with a witty script , the dutch master engages its audience from the outset , giving us a group of characters whose " realness " we can appreciate , if only through their down-to-earth dialogue . told from a " woman's perspective , " the dutch master nevertheless has universal appeal . its length is both an advantage and a disadvantage - there's no fat to be trimmed , but the characters are fascinating enough to deserve more screen time and we have to leave them just as we're really getting to know them . as it is , though , there's more than enough in the dutch master than in many movies three times its length . 
2	most films are complex amalgamations of characters , events , dialog , and all of the other aspects that go into film making . but not sour death balls . sour death balls , one of the first films yu ever made , boils the documentary art form down to its essence . without words and with pam tom's grainy black and white camera work done on a fixed mount , the audience has only the subjects to watch . there are no distractions . even the minimalist background looks more like the wallpaper for a computer screen desktop than a movie set . so what could be so charming ? big gumballs . but not just any gumballs , ones so sour that your eyes bulge out and your mouth tries to repel the invader . yu , who was there at the screening , told us that she was inspired by two daughters of a friend who had the foul tasting balls and were telling people to " put this in your mouth . " yu got the idea to go to a school and film the reactions of young kids as they try to suck on this awful substance . the results are indescribably funny . some children try to keep the ball in , no matter how painful . as in most jessica yu films , her choice of music sets a perfect pace . there are energetic trumpets that seem to burn with the same intensity as the nefarious balls . $50 for the film stock , and that was it . she has taken the short to over 50 international film festivals where it has been an audience favorite and garnered many awards . sometimes it takes simplicity to remind us of the magic of the motion picture medium and of how a straightforward idea can blossom into something wondrously delightful . sour death balls runs a little under 10 minutes . it is not rated , but would be g . the film should mesmerize those young and old . i recommend it to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	a very good chan film . it has a spooky atmosphere , a lot of plot twists , a fast-pace , and is fun to watch . there are many characters ( though there are too many to develop anything about them ) , many suspects , and there is a daffiness about this episode that is endearing . if you disregard all the holes in the story , then you should find this one to be a refreshing thriller . 
2	" i'd rather die today and go to heaven than live to be a hundred and go to hell , " earnestly proclaims the pentecostal preacher . with that line coming from a fundamentalist christian minister , hollywood has taught us how we should fill in the rest of the story . instead it gives us a highly devout man , who certainly has his foibles , but with an absolute dedication to his ministry and his god . and arguably just as surprising , the good-spirited film is no comedy , even if it does have humorous moments . instead of levity the picture takes a touchingly serious approach as it introduces us to a world not normally seen in motion pictures . robert duvall not only gives a moving and realistic performance surely destined to receive an academy award nomination but is also the film's director , writer , executive producer , and chief financier . rarely has a movie been such a labor of love . with a white suit , peach-colored shirt and tie , and dark sunglasses , sonny looks as much like a rock star as a preacher . duvall has every movement down pat . " i may be on the devil's hit-list , but i'm on god's mailing list , " he shouts to the congregation in a revival tent . and they lap it up . people jump up , scream , " praise the lord ! " and mean it . the intensity of their shared religious experience is palpable . but sonny is no saint . his romance with the separated woman , like the rest of the film , doesn't follow the standard patterns we have grown to expect from our movies . his confrontation with the apostle is yet another of show's many surprising scenes , again breaking many rules and conceptions about what approach deeply religious people might take . although it probably couldn't have ended any other way , the movie does wrap things up nicely . and don't miss the sweet epilogue during the film's closing credits . a tour de force acting performance by duvall and a surprising and unrelentingly dedicated script makes for an outstanding and moving film . it is rated pg-13 for mild profanity and brief violence and would be fine for kids eleven and up . 
1	some actresses are known for their gorgeous looks , others for their intelligence , some for their homeliness , and still others for their toughness . the trait that jennifer aniston , last seen in the delightful but underappreciated picture perfect , conjures up on the big screen is her inherent likeableness . in the object of my affection , aniston's character , nina borowski , seems to have it all , or close to it . as the publisher , alan alda gives a boisterous , comedic performance as a consummate namedropper ( mailer , spielberg , stone , hussein , ? ) . the beauty of the story is that it takes so many unexpected detours and side-trips . the dialog , however , too often ends up sounding flat and stagy . and " i'm simple , that's why i teach first grade . " ) after the film's midway point , when it makes a switch from romantic comedy to romantic tragedy , the poignant lines are more sharply drawn . " have you noticed that you're the only practicing heterosexual at your thanksgiving dinner ? " director nicholas hytner , whose last film was the poorly received the crucible , paces the show too languidly and dulls most of the emotional punches with the result being a film bordering too often on blandness when its strength is its risk taking . the ending is crispy written and staged with great power . but then they turn around and give us a feel good hollywood epilogue that ties up the loose ends all too neatly and , in some cases , quite unconvincingly . don't say i didn't warn you if you end up suffering a sugar high from those last few moments . the object of my affection runs 1 : 51 . it is rated r for profanity , some sexuality and brief drug usage and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	screenplay : naomi foner . director : stephen gyllenhaal . it is one of film criticism's most ubiquitous put-downs--one i frequently use myself--to compare a theatrical feature to a tv-movie . such a description is intended to describe both subject matter ( usually topical or sensationalistic ) and manner of presentation ( usually didactic or sentimental ) . losing isaiah has garnered more tv-movie comparisons than i can count , but the comparison isn't entirely appropriate . but tv-movies generally feature one-dimensional characters and a specific agenda . losing isaiah features one-dimensional characters and a steadfast refusal to adopt a point of view . the subject of inter-racial adoption is a challenging and complex one , and no one would expect the makers of losing isaiah to deliver the final word on the matter . it isn't the absence of a patently obvious opinion from writer naomi foner and director stephen gyllenhaal which is the problem , but that there is only a cursory examination of any of the complexities involved . the inevitable court battle features the predictable array of speeches and finger-pointing , but none of these academic arguments are of much use to the audience . we need to see more of isaiah ( the adorable marc john jefferies ) interacting with the lewins , perhaps even being interviewed so his point-of-view could be understood . there is an attempt to deal with isaiah's state of mind in some very effective late scenes which show him responding to a new environment , but those scenes are too little , too late . similarly , the characters of margaret lewin and khaila richards are not characters so much as they are representatives of the two perspectives . the fact is , losing isaiah is far less about the lewins' life with isaiah than it is about khaila , whose redemption is the heart of the story . halle berry is impressive in the early scenes as khaila the addict , but in the film's later stages she becomes the 12-step version of the " hooker with the heart of gold , " too squeaky clean to be real . it seems to be the film's idea of balanced presentation not to give both mothers a character outside of their fierce conviction that the other one is wrong . stephen gyllenhaal's direction is usually best when no one is speaking . those scenes , and those from isaiah's perspective , suggest that if losing isaiah had been more intimate with its characters all the way through , the story could have worked . as it stands , a controversial subject becomes a minor plot device connecting the stories of two rather bland characters . losing isaiah's contrived ending is somehow appropriate for this wishy-washy effort . 
0	cast : tammy lauren , robert englund , andrew divoff , reggie bannister , kane hodder , tony todd director : robert kurtzman producers : pierre david , clark peterson , noel a . zanitsch screenplay : peter atkins cinematography : jacques haitkin music : henry manfredini u . s . distributor : live entertainment every once in a while , a movie like scream comes along and makes film critics everywhere " re-evaluate " the horror genre . however , the sad truth is that for every halloween or a nightmare on elm street or scream , there are literally dozens of bad-to-unwatchable entries . remember leprechaun ? giggles ? or the mangler ? horror films made with intelligence and wit can be great fun . those made on auto- pilot can be the most difficult-to-endure motion pictures around . wishmaster fits firmly into the latter category , and is a shoo-in for a spot on 1997's bottom ten list . the premise is exceedingly dumb , and the solemnity with which wishmaster attempts to convince us of its viability is embarrassing . they exist for one reason -- to bring chaos to the universe . wishmaster is an inept retelling of w . w . jacobs' " the monkey's paw " , a horror classic that i recall first hearing while sitting around a campfire when i was 12 . wishmaster takes that basic premise , dumbs it down considerably , adds an incredible amount of gore , and presents it as a movie . the result is dull , lifeless , and devoid of even minimal chills . and , since wes craven , the director of a nightmare on elm street and scream , is on board as executive producer , the film makers felt completely justified in calling this " wes craven's wishmaster . " i assume that the hope is that craven's name on the marquee will get some viewers into a film that no one would otherwise see . but the djinn always uses the nastiest interpretation of any ambiguous wish . sadly , wishmaster rarely attains the level of badness necessary for it to be enjoyable , although there are times when it can be a hoot to watch some of what passes for acting . lead actress tammy lauren gives a listless , lackluster performance that has us actively wishing for her character's death . director robert kurtzman , who has spent most of his career working as a makeup effects man ( for such films as spawn , scream , and pulp fiction ) , displays the kind of heavy-handedness that should immediately invalidate him for another shot at helming a major feature film . as a matter of personal policy , i never walk out on a movie , but that doesn't mean that i don't occasionally toy with the thought . in the course of an especially bad film , the seductive lure of getting up and heading for the exit can be almost overpowering . during wishmaster , that sensation began creeping up on me only a half-hour into the movie . i stayed to the bitter end , but it was a struggle . my best advice to anyone reading this review -- even someone who considers himself or herself a fan of horror movies -- is to stay away . that way , you won't have to wish that you had never coughed up the money in the first place . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
2	it is not an exploitive movie , but it does manage to work in just about every taboo or controversial subject you can think of from incest to drugs to physical self-love . why in the world would i give this movie a good rating ? have i lost my mind ? well , i rated it such because it is an excellent study of the evils of what horrifically awful parents can do to a child . for purely marketing reasons i suppose , this movie is being billed as a biting comedy . as directed by david o . russell , it is absolutely no such thing . it is a depressing tragedy from the start . the way the father treats the son is pathetic yet realistic . you can feel the pain of the boy . davies's acting is excellent . you get depressed because he is so depressed . the movie certainly lets you know that good grades are not enough and success can not be measured strictly by the college your child can get in . this is a movie that i will remember for quiet a while . it is so controversial , i will make no recommend to see it or not . i will give it a thumbs up and award it * * * . it has no mpaa rating . my guess , given that there is very little nudity in the show , it would have gotten an r ; nevertheless , i think it deserves an nc-17 , and i do not think it is appropriate for kids period . the movie runs 1 : 39 . addendum you may have seen this movie on cnn or read about it in the wall street journal . many people are up in arms over it . frankly , although i am glad i saw the movie , i do not believe the government has any business spending our money making movies at all and so i agree with them . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	every time i think hollywood has slipped beyond redemption , someone in the system produces a film like jerry maguire that renews my faith . apparently , creativity is not dead in the mainstream movie market -- not entirely , at least . this is the kind of movie that reminds me why i started reviewing in the first place . jerry maguire is magic on celluloid -- fresh , funny , romantic , and upbeat . you'll leave the theater with a smile on your face and perhaps a tear in your eye . here , however , the actor is playing to his strength , which lies in an arena that demands less testosterone . leave the stunts and explosions to schwarzenegger and stallone . cruise is best when he stays low key and flashes the occasional smile . and , in this picture , surrounded by a superlative supporting cast , his ability shines . jerry maguire works because we root for the title character , and it's cruise's performance that forges the link between his screen personae and the audience . the essay attacks the sports agency business , advocating a more humane approach . in an era of downsizing and force reductions , it's easy to understand what happens to jerry . it's about finding one's heart and soul in a business climate that attempts to rip both away . writer/director cameron crowe , who previously helmed say anything and singles ( in addition to scripting fast times at ridgemont high ) brings both a strong sense of verisimilitude and a lively wit to his film . even as jerry maguire reaches out to the heart , it tickles the funny bone . not only does crowe have a knack for creating multi- dimensional personalities for secondary characters with minimal screen time , but he uses traditional formulas in unique ways to serve his themes . for example , a common sports cliche is integrated into jerry maguire in such a way that it doesn't seem cheap or overdone . it's not the point of the movie ; it's just another piece in the overall puzzle . with a fine performance , he forms the glue that holds the production together . cuba gooding jr . , who was excellent years ago in his boyz 'n the hood debut , but hasn't done much since , invests rod with a remarkable level of energy and enthusiasm . and , although his favorite phrase is " show me the money ! " , with a standout performance , she transforms what could have been an minor role into something noteworthy . zellweger displays an appealing blend of strength and vulnerability , and her chemistry with cruise is nearly perfect . their first romantic scene is charged with a playful , but undeniable , eroticism . if there's one downside to the actress' appearance in jerry maguire , it's that she's not on screen enough . and , even if jerry isn't immediately smitten , we are . while the budding romance between jerry and dorothy is jerry maguire's most enchanting element , the remainder of the film has the necessary appeal to keep our attention when zellweger isn't around ( cruise , on the other hand , is in just about every scene ) . crowe , who doesn't have a subpar entry on his short resume , has crafted another winner here . in fact , with its attention to detail , top-notch performances , and universal themes , jerry maguire marks his most successful movie to date . for anyone who has forgotten the feelings that a wonderful movie can trigger , jerry maguire provides a welcome reminder . 
1	david lynch's mulholland drive is a cross between a slow-motion episode of " the x files " and a super long version of " twin peaks . " a baffling but always intriguing failure , the movie gets more confusing , not less , as the story unfolds . lynch won the director's prize at this year's cannes film festival for the film . it would have been more appropriate if he had a gotten a dual award -- a first for directing and a booby prize for writing . lynch can make the simple act of walking down a small staircase ominous , but his script is full of bewildering and unrealistic characters for whom we care nothing . something bad is happening . " yours will probably be an equally simplistic , " huh ? " you'll be thinking that a lot during this movie , which needs a pictorial scorecard to keep track of all of the quirky characters who make brief appearances . almost every scene is full of foreboding , although the source of the danger is never quite clear . frequently lynch appears to have his camera dolly floating on a gently undulating sea in order to enhance the audience's queasiness . " i'm going to trust you to sort this thing out , " coco ( ann miller ) tells betty at one point . mulholland drive runs way too long at 2 : 26 . it is rated r for " violence , language and some strong sexuality " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	first of all , let's get the obvious question out of the way . however , while moore's body may be the movie's primary selling point , the film tries to do more than just display naked breasts . the heart of striptease is a satirical examination of those who frequent strip clubs , and this makes it profoundly different from showgirls , which embraced those aspects of american culture that striptease lampoons . unfortunately , striptease's satirical bent , while aimed not only at the sexist attitudes of those who patronize topless joints , but at politicians , right-wing religious fanatics , and lawyers , is unfocused and lacks the requisite viciousness . it's just one aspect of a muddled , overly-long motion picture that can't decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama . ultimately , the overabundance of ineffective dramatic moments hurts the movie . the situation is just too improbable and silly to carry any dramatic weight . one of the supposed comic elements of striptease is burt reynolds' offensive , fatuous character . this is an unsavory man , and reynolds plays him in a creepy , unsettling manner . but , if it's difficult to laugh at reynolds , the same can't be said about ving rhames . in his role as shad , the eager beaver's bouncer , rhames' deadpan , matter-of-fact style ( similar to the one he used in pulp fiction ) is consistently hilarious . moore is fine in this role , although more attention will be paid to her physical attributes than her acting . she's a little out of her depth in the dramatic sequences , although that's only one of the reasons they don't work ( the script being the primary culprit ) . young rumer willis , who received a lot of notoriety before she was born as a result of moore's vanity fair cover , displays some promise with her unaffected performance . despite being designed to mock those who leer , striptease does some leering of its own . several lengthy topless dance sequences are shot in an energetic and provocative manner . it's easy to be cynical about this film's motives , especially considering how drastically andrew bergman's script has watered down the most biting aspects of carl hiaasen's novel . striptease is a curious mix of eroticism , comedy , and drama that , instead of blending into a pleasing whole , has a tendency to separate and curdle . 
1	zhang yimou ( " raise the red lantern " ) has securely grounded a " feel good " film with characters who have greatly touched me , even though the film is bogged down with much communist propaganda and it ends like a typical hollywood " feel good " movie , in this case with too much good cheer over nothing much accomplished to make it so proud about itself . nevertheless , this is a brilliantly directed austere film for the most part , telling about ordinary people in a very poor , rural village in china's hebei province . it held my interest as i observed the classroom dynamics taking place in a broken down one-room schoolhouse and in the contrasting lifestyle shown in the modern chinese city . these are human interest stories i have not seen before about the new china , presented here in such an informal way . the cast of mostly nonprofessional actors , playing themselves , acquitted their task with a spirited performance , giving power to the story about the problems with rural education for the poor people of that region . the characters should be about the size of a donkey turd . but the mayor will not give her transportation to the city and shrugs his shoulder , saying that's just the way it is with poor people around here . this leads to the only lesson she ever thought , as she has the children do the math for this real-life problem , of trying to figure out how many bricks it would take to move before she has enough for round-trip bus fare . it's a communal effort , since her math is not much better than her student's . this looked so unreal , that i thought the last reel got mixed in with one of those typical hollywood films of this kind . though , what was interesting about this part of the film , was taking a gander at the city and how clean and boring and crowded it looked . the message of the film was unnecessarily delivered in a heavy-handed manner , about the poor conditions of china's rural schools . the film was so adeptly done and looked and felt so good , and the parts of all the people were played by those playing themselves in such a natural way , that i didn't see its downfall coming until it was too late and , anyway , by that time i was really getting off on the film and was amazed by the simple daily life rhythms of the schoolchildren and the common villagers , that i was already hooked on liking the film . i especially found the performance of wei minzhi to be impactful . this fictional story was better than the message delivered , and the film is much better than it sounds , given the aforementioned flaws it has , it still shows the power of human love over all the coldness in the world . 
1	i know i should have liked carlito's way , but it just did not work for me . his performance was good albeit it fairly monotonous . this type of role is usually overacted , but penn , who has been done for overacting on too many occasions , was believable and fascinating . it might be worth going to see the show to see penn's performance , but i don't think so . the director was brian de palma . i would put carlito's way as a so-so show , i give it * * , but i do not recommend it . overall , i just could not care about these people . they could live or die ; i didn't care . if you do go , besides penn's role to enjoy , there are wonderful rain scenes in new york . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	warning : the review includes an important spoiler in the first and last paragraph . there's a surprise that is revealed during the end credits : this fascinating documentary turns out to be a mock-documentary , after it hits you over the head with the problems facing many american workers during the changing times of the 1990s and spends the entire film looking like a real documentary . russ hexter , the 27-year-old writer-director , unexpectedly died of an aortic aneurysm shortly after shooting the innovative film , cutting short a possible brilliant career . the chasm between the locals and the newcomers is enormous , being caused mostly by a cultural clash . that it was not for real , does take away a lot of the film's impact and poignancy , but still it leaves the viewer with a sense that it cut through something perplexing that is currently happening , that is part of the human drama that causes some strange behavior to emerge . hexter has thrown open a look at all the social , political , and economic factors involved in the evolution of a small town , and he has done a nice job in showing the human tragedy above all else as being the most important thing to consider , even though in the bigger picture things might look like they are working out , there's still a face you have to put on someone who loses his job . 
0	serial killer movies are probably the easiest to get right . formula pictures , they can almost run on autopilot . making an outstanding one , like copycat , of course , requires considerable skill and effort . in the watcher , by music video director joe charbanic , the pacing is so far off and the editing is so haphazard that it is easy to forget what genre the movie is supposed to belong to . it's not easy to make a dull serial killer movie , but charbanic has succeeded at least at that . watching actors who look like they might fall asleep at any moment can be rather sleep-inducing for an audience . of course , the movie is frequently so ridiculous that your own laughter may keep you awake . the movie's sparse dialog features such gems as : " goodness gracious , nothing like a good serial killer to kick off the holiday season . " this leaves the visuals to carry the movie , which they can't . long lethargic sections of film are interrupted briefly by hyperactive video segments . these grainy , choppy , blurry video images look like they were shot on a cheap camcorder by a drunk at a new year's eve party . the ludicrous aspects of the script by david elliot and clay ayers are almost endless , but let me mention just four : 1 ) they have a high quality color picture of one victim , but the poster that they cover the town with has such a low contrast black-and-white picture on it that you can't tell that it was the same woman . campbell offers to call him back , but , driving wildly with one-hand , hollis says that isn't necessary . it is no wonder then that our audience was laughing at the picture on the way out . when campbell utters the movie's last line , " time's up , " my immediate reaction was , " yes , but not nearly soon enough . " it is rated r for violence and language . having remarkably little gore and reasonably tame language , it would be acceptable for most teenagers , but i would not recommend it to anyone . 
0	edward l . cahn's four skulls is a rather humorless and flat horror story , but it's blessed with a wonderful title . you would think her old man would tell her about something as important as that . challenging idea was never really followed through , as the film instead became a conventional melodrama . but in the hands of someone more intellectually capable than cahn , there was the thread of a good story available , instead of shooting for the mundane , the reliance on the creepiness of the killer and the spectacle of seeing a head shrunk to tell the story . it is what gives one immortality . don't ask me what this means symbolically ! it's too bad this film didn't have some more life to it . the best thing that can be said about it , is that it was competently made and was somehow watchable . the actors are to be commiserated with and not criticized , no actor could have done anything with the dry lines they were handed . it was never mentioned if they were twins or not . 
2	little odessa , the stunning feature debut of 24-year old writer/director james gray , is about to become the victim of distributor politics . as a result of recent changes in upper management , fine line features has chosen to limit--if not completely withdraw--support for this film . considering the strength of the material , the adeptness of gray's direction , and several memorable performances , this is a classic case of cinematic injustice . little odessa deserves to be seen by as many movie-goers as possible , not just those living in the few locations where fine line choses to release it . little odessa is an extremely complex motion picture , layered with powerful themes and fascinating characters . the film's ending has a strong allegorical , as well as dramatic , impact . not only is the final sequence emotionally crushing , but it slams home a vivid and telling message about prices paid by both the innocent and the guilty for crimes within the community . by this performance , tim roth adds yet another impressive credit to his resume . maximilian schell , an accomplished actor who hasn't had much screen exposure in the past few years , encourages in viewers a mixture of resentment and sympathy . moira kelly , despite the most limited screen time of a member of the primary cast , turns in one of the best performances of her career . her confusion , self-doubt , and conflicting feelings for josh , as well as her recognition that the relationship is doomed , add a subdued poignancy to alla that less skillful acting would not have conveyed . edward furlong , a young actor gaining presence with each new role , somewhat underplays reuben , but not to the point where it interferes with the story . vanessa redgrave does her usual fine job . the violence of little odessa is brutal , quick , and always shocking . as in schindler's list , scenes of bloodshed are presented graphically , but never gratuitously . this is a credit to the director , who has a clear vision and uses all the tools at his disposal to attain those ends . because of the richness of the subject matter and the complexity of the characters , gangster movies , especially those with strong ethnic overtones , make excellent vehicles for social commentary . little odessa is the latest example of what such a film can accomplish . with an emotional impact as strong as its intellectual appeal , little odessa is deserving of a far better fate than the one fine line features has consigned it to . 
2	a precious and unnerving thriller , one that never fails to offer some kind of hitchcockian surprise , as the film is unpredictable throughout . but harry is troubled by this and refuses to release the tapes to anyone but the director . this somber thriller is a beauty , projecting a maddening character study , and infiltrating a secretive and cold world , where the protagonist , a private wire-tapper , has lost his sense of direction , knowing that one's privacy can so easily be exposed by expert technicians like himself and be used for any purpose . the acting was magnificent on all parts , the story was grippingly told , and its denouement , is the equal of the best thrillers ever made . a unique film , whose great sound track by walter murch , is essential to the plot , as the technology in the film was the key element in setting-up the very eerie atmosphere and bleakness associated with a technology used so despairingly . the film is even more relevant today than it was back in the 1970s , as the world has become even more so of a place where it is possible for technology to invade the privacy of any citizen . 
2	screenplay : atom egoyan , based on the novel by william trevor . director : atom egoyan . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( adult themes , profanity , sexual situations ) running time : 116 minutes . without revealing too much , it's fair to say that joseph hilditch ( bob hoskins ) is not what he appears to be . then again , it may not . felicia's journey , adapted by atom egoyan from william trevor's novel , is an investigation into relationship pathology that works beautifully while those pathologies remain enigmatic . for the first half of the film , egoyan darts and weaves through time and place , showing us both of the principal characters searching for someone to cling to . her search is clearly doomed from the start , but no less doomed than the quest of mr . hilditch . there's plenty of rich psychological material in the intersection of these two characters , and egoyan keeps it compelling for much of the running time . bob hoskins' performance anchors the material , creating a character that keeps the audience off balance . when hoskins wants you to feel for hilditch , you'll feel for him . hilditch develops in so many unexpected ways that the film's resolution can only come as a disappointment . egoyan is incapable of letting felicia's journey become a simple genre film , but he's stuck with genre conventions all the same ( though why he assented to mychael danna's clanking , ham-fisted instrumental score , i have no idea ) . as a dramatic climax , however , it's unsatisfying , a deus-by-proxy ex machina way for hilditch's eyes to be opened . and egoyan should henceforth resist the temptation to close his films with explicatory voice-overs ( see also : the sweet hereafter ) . those flaws might have crushed another film , but felicia's journey gets off to too solid a start . hoskins' performance alone makes felicia's journey worthy watching ; it's just a shame that such a subtle performance ends with such melodrama . " things take a turn , " hilditch ominously intones at one point , which could easily summarize felicia's journey . it's a turn that wrings simple quality from potential brilliance . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	starring : kim vithana , jimmi harkishin , sarita khajuria , mo sesay , lalita ahmed , shaheen khan director : gurinder chadha producer : nadine marsh-edwards screenplay : meera syal cinematography : john kenway music : craig pruess , john altman , and kuljit bhamra released by first look pictures bhaji on the beach not only examines this cross-cultural conflict , but looks at sexism and the generation gap , as well . there are so many stories that it's sometimes difficult to keep up with each one , especially in the beginning , when the characters are being introduced . if there's an obvious failing in chadha's work , it's that she's too ambitious . she has a lot to say and , apparently , wants to say it all in one movie . the result is a controlled chaos that can , upon occasion , become confusing . there are other characters , as well . throughout much of the movie , chadha keeps the tone light--a demanding task considering the amount of material she's juggling . the final fifteen minutes , which include an overload of melodrama and a shocking display of violence , are not as well directed as the previous eighty-five , and the mood is at variance with what came before . like her creative idol , ken loach , the director attempts to blend gritty realism with natural comedy , but her success is qualified . she has an accurate grasp of the little details of life , but sometimes the broader strokes elude her . for the most part , the characters are richly drawn , and this helps to maintain balance among the different stories . there aren't sequences in bhaji on the beach where the action bogs down because we're waiting for the focus to shift . admittedly , certain subplots , such as hashida's relationship with oliver , are better-presented than others , but nothing stands out as being obviously superior . there's a line of dialogue in bhaji on the beach that sums up the film : " it's not often that we women get away from the patriarchal demands made on us in our daily lives , struggling under the double yoke of racism and sexism . " when simi says this , she does so with a broad smile . it's a serious statement , but not one ponderously made . and that seems to be chadha's view of filmmaking : explore themes , but let the philosophical issues blend into the story , not dominate it . if she continues to abide by this creed , it may not take many more films before she's turning out pictures to rival loach's riff-raff and raining stones . 
0	despite his immense popularity on stage , rodney dangerfield doesn't have a sterling reputation as a motion picture lead . with the exception of back to school , a delightfully dumb 1986 comedy , every movie to feature dangerfield prominently ( caddyshack , easy money , ladybugs ) has been a dud . meet wally sparks , a lame , late-january film dumped into a sluggish market , may well finish the aging comic's screen career . there's nothing in this movie that warrants the price of a video rental , much less a trip to a theater . generally , about the best one can hope for from a dangerfield movie is a cliched storyline filled with crude-but-humorous gags and one- liners . that is , after all , basically what back to school delivered , and it worked on that basis . meet wally sparks never comes close , because there's hardly a laugh to be found from start to finish . it amazes me that dangerfield , who in the past has been able to make the simple act of walking into a room funny , has turned out such a dreadful motion picture . meet wally sparks is easily among the ten worst comedies i've seen in the past two years . it's hard to put a finger on why dangerfield isn't funny here . he certainly doesn't seem to have invested his character , tabloid talkshow host wally sparks , with much vitality . the sex jokes , even when you can't see them coming , are old and tired , as if we've heard them a few times too many . this shtick is worn-out ; it might still work in comedy clubs , but any spontaneity is lost on screen . and , unfortunately , the one or two potentially-amusing moments have been shown to death in the previews , so their comic effect is ruined . even dangerfield's intention of lampooning the current generation of talk shows isn't successful . without that quality , there's little chance for satire to be effective . yet probably the worst thing about wally sparks is its failed attempts to inject character development and human interest into a one-dimensional story . by aiming for pathos , this movie comes across as pathetic . once the credits have concluded , however , it's all downhill -- fast . the film's premise involves wally toning down his show to stem the tide of deserting sponsors . enduring meet wally sparks is akin to watching a multi-car pileup , as each successive failure leads to a bigger thud . by the end of the movie , i didn't know whether to feel angry at being subjected to such a loathsome experience , or saddened and embarrassed for dangerfield and the others involved . by his own admission , rodney's not a happy person , and the public and critical response to meet wally sparks isn't likely to bring much sunshine into his life . this is truly a movie that doesn't deserve any respect . 
1	screenplay : mike figgis . director : mike figgis . mpaa rating : r ( nudity , sexual situations , violence , adult themes ) running time : 101 minutes . is the loss of sexual innocence , mike figgis' experimental non-linear tone poem , pretentious ? of course it is -- you've got to have a healthy streak of pretentiousness in you to break free from conventional narrative structure and make something so distinct that it's occasionally confounding . perhaps a better question is whether the loss of sexual innocence is nothing _but_ pretentious . even more so than in most films , the answer to that question will be an eye-of-the-beholder proposition . some will see little more than insufferable , gratuitous , iconoclastic noodling . others will see a film that grips you with many of its images even as it keeps you at an artistic arm's length . though there is no structured " story " to the loss of sexual innocence , there is a focal point in the character of nic , seen at various formative stages of his life . what may appear from that description to be a fragmented film actually feels surprisingly cohesive . figgis maintains a consistent tone for his various images , creating a collection of cinematic short stories as thematically connected as hemingway's _a moveable feast_ . the piano music of schumann and chopin trades places with figgis' own compositions , accentuating some magical cinematography by benoit delhomme . if you allow yourself to get lost in the loss of sexual innocence , and avoid succumbing to the temptation to figure out what everything " means , " it can wash over your resistance to its unconventionality . and , to be frank , some of it is just plain weird . instead of giving us a view of an inner life , the scenes play out like a parody of dream images , full of dissonant music and shifting realities like a years-too-late outtake from " twin peaks . " most baffling and annoying to some will be the garden of eden sequences , which conspicuously match a transluscently nordic eve with a strikingly black adam , both of whom are fully nude in every scene . there's nothing particularly revelatory about figgis' account of the fall but his interracial first parents , nothing visually compelling in his unblinking staredown with innocence personified . that's the level on which the loss of sexual innocence is bound to set to itching those who can't stand it when their art looks this in-your-face art-y . there are times when figgis' efforts grow wearying in their lack of basic resonance with the viewer's experiences . there are also times when he hits the nail spectacularly on the head , and times when the film works on an almost symphonic level . mike figgis wants to use the cinema the way only cinema can be used , and without question he does so . the extent to which this mixed bag of mourning and memory succeeds is a matter for _extremely_ subjective analysis . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	mpaa rating : r ( profanity , sexual situations , violence ) running time : 115 minutes . the general's daughter will probably be the cleverest stupid film we'll see this year -- or perhaps the stupidest clever film . it's confusing to a critic when so much knuckleheaded plotting and ostentatious direction shares the screen with so much snappy dialogue and crisp character interaction . the punched-up punch lines are ever on the verge of convincing you the general's daughter has a brain in its head , even as the remaining 75% of the narrative punches you in the face with its lack of common sense . if only the sordidness were the worst of the general's daughter's problems . scenes of sexual degredation do linger much longer than necessary , their negligible dramatic value overwhelmed by filtered-light sleaze . director simon west likely thinks he's covered himself by juxtaposing these images of violence with sweet flowers , but all he does is prove himself dependent on visual cliches , which is the film's fatal flaw . it's a trend he continues for two hours , taking the story's few virtues and slapping a coat of moron-proof obviousness over them . bubbling up from this overcooked stew are enough tasty lines to distract you from its smell . there's something invigorating about watching two smart actors playing smart characters firing honesty at one another . even the lame device of brenner and sunhill's sexual history provides a few winning zingers . goldman's dialogue can serve up a bigger laugh than you'll find in most so-called comedies . dialogue , unfortunately , just isn't enough to make a quality script . by the time the general's daughter wanders towards its over-wrought , psycho-in-the-rain finale , west's heavy hand has obliterated most of what made the film occasionally fun . it's silly and pretentious film-making , but at least it provides a giggle or five . goldman should tear the 15 decent pages out of this script and turn them into a stand-up routine . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	follow the bouncing ball and sing-along , " macho , macho man , i want to be a macho man . " now , as this is essentially in and out's theme song , keep it going in your subconscious as you read the rest of this review , and it will put you in just the right mood to hear about one of the funniest comedies of the year . what if the teacher either wasn't gay or wasn't known to be gay ? the resulting movie , in and out , by writer paul rudnick from jeffrey and director frank oz from the indian in the cupboard and dirty rotten scoundrels , literally bursts with comedic energy . the audience at my advanced screening laughed so hard and so often that it would take another viewing to hear all of the delicious jokes properly . in short , he is terrific especially in the film's dance routine . ( for the record , i think steve martin would have been even better but kline gives a performance worthy of oscar consideration . ) the real academy awards show should be this funny . after film clips of cameron in an awful war picture , glenn close names the best actor nominees including steven seagal for a snowball in hell , an obvious reference to his chance of ever getting the real award . " i may sue , " howard off-handedly suggests to them . stay tuned . " easily the funniest part of the show is the training howard puts himself through to demonstrate his masculinity . he repeats the first two fine -- " yo " and " hot damn . " arnold doesn't dance . you will never be able to hear this song again without dancing around the room . the script itself is the real star of the show . it manages to elicit huge laughs without resorting to slapstick , and it finds humor in unlikely spots . everyone in the movie is in top form . bob newhart , as the dour principal , gets away with lines that would sound ridiculous coming from anyone else . joan cusack takes a simple prop -- a fluffy white wedding dress -- and does more funny things with it than would seem possible . about halfway through the film , the writer briefly looks as though he has painted himself into a comedic corner , but he extricates the story quickly and picks right back up with the humor . the show ends with a suitably uproarious sequence . in and out is such a splendid and infectiously happy comedy that when you walk through the parking lot after the movie , you will undoubtedly still be able to hear the audience's laughter and the show's energetic music reverberating in your head . it is rated pg-13 for mature themes and a little profanity . the show would be fine kids around ten and up . i recommend the picture to you highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	it isn't just josh's tale , however . and at what point does the need to win become so important that the game ceases to be fun ? it's then that chess becomes a burden and he stops enjoying it . we never learn exactly what demons haunt pandolfini , and it's a credit to this film that it doesn't make them explicit . there are enough clues that they can be guessed at , and searching for bobby fischer relies upon the intelligence of its audience to put the pieces together . there are four key relationships in this film , each of which is explored with varying success . even the weakest , that of josh and his mother ( joan allen ) , has an emotional depth unusual for the amount of screen time accorded to it . of all the adults in the film , only bonnie waitzkin never loses sight of what's best for her son . it's clear that the two are fond of each other , and vinnie's tactics become important to josh's development as a player , but we don't see enough of the two of them together to get a genuine sense of the mutual respect that grows between them . this kind of pressure is too much to put on a young boy , no matter how gifted he is , and it takes a threat by bonnie to make this clear and put the situation in perspective . also explored in some detail are josh's interactions with bruce pandolfini . these are men with faults , but it's those imperfections that enable us to empathize with them . neither actor has an overabundance of screen time with which to develop a personality , but good performers can do quite a bit with an economy of scenes . joan allen , despite often being relegated to the background , gives a convincing portrayal of a mother who cares so much about her son's well-being that she's willing to take him away from his father , if necessary , to assure it . realism was important to the film makers--they wanted chess-playing viewers to be spared the indignity of watching someone faking playing the game . in max pomeranc , an excellent choice was made . he's not the best child actor to grace the screen , but he avoids the awkward obviousness of many . searching for bobby fischer is an intensely fascinating movie capable of involving those who are ignorant about chess as well as those who love it . the focus of the film is less on the actual game than it is on the people , emotions , and pressures surrounding josh . it is a tale of human trials and triumph , not a sports movie that panders to a certain segment of the population . chess may not be the most exciting activity to watch , but searching for bobby fischer makes for engaging entertainment . one final note : even though this film might seem like a perfect family movie with its lack of violence , profanity , and sex , i would caution parents considering taking their children to searching for bobby fischer . with its focus on character development and drama , many younger viewers will likely become quickly bored . this is an " adult " movie ill-suited to those with short attention spans . 
2	as good as it gets is a perfect christmas release , not because the story takes place during the yule season , but because many of the plot elements are straight out of charles dickens' a christmas carol . there's more than just a little scrooge in melvin udall ( jack nicholson ) , the most unpleasant man in manhattan . by the time we leave the theater , the warmth of love has melted the coldest heart on earth . that's the reason this is called a " feel good " movie . as good as it gets is really two related movies in one , which explains the surprisingly long running time . while 138 minutes is fine for an epic adventure or a weighty drama , it makes a lightweight effort like this seem a little bloated . director james l . brooks , who does these kinds of movies as well as anyone in hollywood , has moderate success . as good as it gets is not a positive triumph , but it does bring a smile to the face and , perhaps in some cases , a tear to the eye . to make matters worse , melvin is afflicted with an obsessive/compulsive disorder that makes his behavior seem even more strange . of course , no one can change overnight , and there are times when the old melvin rears his ugly head , leading to plot complications . nicholson is wonderful as melvin the jerk . he delivers the acid one-liners with real venom , has perfected the irritating mannerisms of an obsessive/compulsive individual , and generally makes it easy to accept the character as the last person you'd want to spend any time with . he does have some great lines , though . like melvin , the events in as good as it gets transform carol , but her gentler , gradual personality shift is more believable . alas , she and nicholson never really click , which puts something of a damper on the romantic storyline . the real surprise is greg kinnear , who turns in a more solidly dramatic performance than we had a right to suspect based on his past record . in sabrina , kinnear displayed a feckless charm , but here he's required to dig deeper . ultimately , it's the quirks and details of as good as it gets' script ( by brooks and co-writer mark andrus ) , rather than the broad strokes , which make the film enjoyable . essentially , this is a formulaic , connect-the-dots tale which offers few , if any surprises . fifteen minutes into the movie , you'll be able to guess exactly how it will all work out . as a result , the chief pleasure for the next two hours is watching the characters grow and interact as they traverse the familiar path . as good as it gets may not quite live up to its title , but it doesn't fall unacceptably short of the mark . - ingmar bergman 
0	in osmosis jones , the farrelly brothers , co-directors bobby and peter , turn their outlandish and frequently disgusting brand of adult humor ( me , myself & irene ) to the world of kids' movies . the result is a film that is just as repulsive and awful as its vile trailers . mostly a cartoon set inside the human body , the movie cuts back periodically to a live-action outer world dominated by bill murray , who has never sunk so low . expect to be ready to run for the exits whenever humans show up on the screen . walking out could be one of your smartest moves of the year . in short , frank is the type of character that you hope to forget as quickly as possible but fear that you won't be able to . the animated part of the picture has a certain amount of imagination but just isn't funny . cartoon figures say things like they are going down to the kidneys to see the stones , you know , as in the rolling stones . if you go , one piece of advice : byobb . bring your own barf bag . it is rated pg for " bodily humor . " since the movie was originally rated pg-13 , one wonders how it escaped the pg-13 rating . besides its illustrated bathroom humor , the movie has some sequences that could disturb kids under 7 , including the realistic death of a parent and a frightening cartoon villain . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave it just 1/2 of a star , saying that it was one of the very worst movies of the year . he found it disgusting and boring . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	cast : harrison ford , julia ormond , greg kinnear , nancy marchand , john wood , richard crenna , angie dickenson , lauren holly director : sydney pollack producers : scott rudin and sydney pollack screenplay : barbara benedek & david rayfiel based on the film written by billy wilder and samuel taylor and ernest lehman , from the play by samuel taylor cinematography : giuseppe rotunno music : john williams u . s . distributor : paramount pictures these days , hollywood seems to be almost entirely bankrupt of new ideas . for bursts of inspiration or innovation , the movie-goer increasingly has to seek out independent motion pictures . what we are getting more and more from the big studios is a flood of sequels , films based on novels , films based on tv series , remakes , or a combination of the above . sabrina joins this list as the latest classic whose script and cast have been updated for the '90s -- although in the case of this variation on the cinderella tale , the story admittedly has a certain timeless quality . in general , i approach romances with a great deal of skepticism , principally because it's so easy to mess up this kind of movie . love is a difficult emotion to effectively capture on film , and , too often , screen romances look like two actors going through the motions . happily , with sabrina , that's not the case . despite the unambitious , formula-driven plot , wonderful performances by julia ormond and , especially , harrison ford keep this remake afloat . i would never claim that sabrina is one of 1995's best romantic movies ( although it is an improvement on the overrated the american president ) . its plot-by-numbers story doesn't offer much in the way of surprises , and it doesn't have the emotional power of a leaving las vegas or the euphoric quality of the brothers mcmullen . but sabrina is fun in its own way , and , though clearly flawed , it nevertheless offers two hours' solid diversion ( the overlong running time , by the way , is one of those flaws ) . while julia ormond is no hepburn , she possesses the kind of luminous screen presence which allows us to accept her part in this modern-day fairy tale . harrison ford , taking over for humphrey bogart , is very good as linus , carefully mixing pathos , cruelty , and compassion into a surprisingly complex personality . the weakest of the main performers is greg kinnear ( in the william holden part ) , who is more of a personality than an actor -- and , at times , this shows . of the supporting players , only veteran actor john wood is worthy of special note . the rest of the cast do adequate , but not noteworthy , jobs . here , the personality change is similar , but it happens in a more believable fashion , and the motivator -- love -- seems far less contrived . it's not really that difficult to defend sabrina , despite its numerous faults . even though it isn't as good as the original 1954 version , this movie , brought to the screen by director sydney pollack ( out of africa ) , simply has too much romantic appeal and on-screen chemistry to be dismissed as " just another " in the ever-growing pool of remakes . 
0	screenplay : robert locash , pat proft , jerry zucker . producers : jerry zucker , pat proft , gil netter . starring : jon lovitz , tia carrere , mekhi phifer , louise fletcher , malinda williams , guillermo diaz . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( adult themes , profanity ) running time : 86 minutes . the naked gun ) that it misses one of its most obvious gags : there is nary a " dick clark " gag to be found . obviousness was never really an issue for the zuckers , because their modus operandi was a non-stop assault of puns , pratfalls and pop culture references , allowing every dud joke to be swallowed up by the next one in line . high school high doesn't seem to have time for that kind of comic machine-gunning , because it is too busy with -- of all things -- a plot . and this is that rarity among contemporary films , one which needs less plot instead of more . high school high was directed by erstwhile b-actor and pcu director hart bochner , and he shows little aptitude for the kind of frame-filling humor which characterized other zucker parodies . nearly every gag is front and center here , providing little incentive to scour the background for throwaway bits . on the rare occasion when a joke is tucked away for discovery -- like a sign in a topless bar-cum-theater which promises " next week : all-nude ibsen " -- it is like a gift . too much of the time , however , writers zucker , pat proft and robert locash measure out the laughs as though aware that there aren't that many to go around . they also can't seem to decide what kind of laughs they are going for . i'm not going to suggest that low humor hasn't always played a significant role in zucker films , since they were inspired largely by mad magazine , but there was usually the sense that they were writing dumb comedy for smart people , jackhammer-subtle but intricately absurdist . high school high is not nearly as clever , aiming many of its gags at the same audience which tri-star is targeting with a hip-hop-heavy soundtrack . the number of jokes aimed at gays or lesbians runs in the high teens ; the over-use or mis-use of urban slang runs a close second . the dependence on a soundtrack and the surprisingly straight-forward narrative often make high school high feel less like a parody of dangerous minds than a slightly more amusing remake of dangerous minds . actually , in some ways it resembles this year's the substitute even more , with its sub-plot of drug dealing and administrative complicity , but the substitute was a more subversive film . high school high is not nearly hard enough on the cliched movies made for and about urban youth , perhaps afraid of insulting its own audience . with its cast a combination of comic actors like lovitz and dramatic actors like fletcher and phifer , high school high slides uncomfortably between mockery and schlockery . the surest sign of high school high's spartan comedy is that it almost isn't worth staying through the closing credits , where the zuckers usually tossed off half a dozen silly little references . it's just a basic crawl this time , which also sums up the pace of the film rather nicely . 
0	columbia pictures , in their infinite wisdom , probably think they have found just the right high concept movie with cruel intentions to bring in those plentiful teen dollars . they have made another film adaptation of the french novel , " les liaisons dangereuses , " for what seems like the millionth time , but with a highly marketable twist . they have cast it with young heartthrobs , which will undoubtedly fill the theaters with teenagers looking for guilty pleasures , not that they will find many . that the movie is actually one big tease shouldn't be a problem . they hope to bluff the young target audiences by having the actors do little more than talk incessantly and foully about sex . if he fails , kathryn gets his prized antique sports car . the casting sounds better than it turns out thanks to roger kumble's lackluster writing and directing . ( it's a good thing that there aren't laser disks with 747 pilots giving how-to lessons . who would have ever guessed it possible to make this story as flat as sebastian's bed and as lifeless as the stone figurines that stand stoically outside the lavish valmont mansion ? the only character that sporadically works is that of kathryn , played by sarah michelle gellar , last seen delightfully in simply irresistible . " my advice is to sleep with as many men as possible . " as sebastian , ryan phillippe looks the part but never acts it . never convincingly evil , he should have been replaced by someone who could be nasty enough for us to hate . he comes closer to boring us to death than enraging us , no matter how many kinky sexual acts he gets to discuss . even when given juicy lines -- " i'm tired of sleeping with these insipid manhattan debutantes . there's nothing that can shock them anymore . " -- his heart never seems in it . when sebastian should be coldly calculating , ryan reduces him to merely being cold . typical of the movie is its music . rather than forming images of evil seduction in our minds , the jarring , staccato sounds are rather like a form of water torture . drip , drip , drip , the music pulses to the same excruciatingly slow pace as the film . relief finally comes in the form of ending credits . it is rated r for strong sexual dialogue and sexual situations involving teens , profanity and drug use . the film would be acceptable only for the oldest and most mature teens . 
2	cecilia roth , the wonderful argentinian-born actress , is the focal point of the film and it is fair to say that her outstanding performance tries to portray what the director wants to say about the nature of motherhood . in this film there is little difference between what is real and what is fake . this is the 13th pedro almod ? var film i have seen , one that many critics say shows the aging , enfant terrible director maturing , becoming kinder and gentler , showing a capacity for making a film with more of a conventional plot and being less interested in shocking his audience as he once loved to do . but the shock is still there , enough of it to keep it from becoming a mainstream film . to visually show her path back and forth from barcelona to madrid , there is a stunningly photographed tunnel looking very much like a womb , with a train racing through it . though the film has a pungency to it , there are just too many scenes where the wit seems forced and doesn't flow in the natural rhythm of the story . the film is filled with many references and homages to other hollywood films and to writers , something that is both good and bad . it is good because too many films are devoid of any intellectual influences . bad because the references are overused here , making the director's gushy homages too syrupy for my taste buds . but he doesn't know that . this is a story about many different things : its subplots could take you into areas such as organ donors , aids , coincidences , family relationships , family values , and the affects of pop culture on the public ( take note of that hilarious diaper commercial , an actual one shown on spanish tv ) ; but , the film's main premises were about : praising actresses , praising motherhood , praising sexual ambiguity , and praising the kindness from strangers ( tolerance of all people seems to be the strongest message emanating from the film ) . the mixed feelings i got about the film come from my not being sure if this film is meant to be taken as a parody or a tragic soap opera . there were times i didn't know whether i was supposed to laugh at all this or cry . this film is melodramatic in the tradition of the douglas sirk nuclear family romantic rock hudson and dorothy malone ones of the 1950s , but with almod ? var , it becomes even a weepier one , one that is mostly outrageous , one whose family nature is more ambiguous and certainly not nuclear . it is a film that is paradoxical : men can be actresses also . the deftness of the cinematography and the array of colors displayed are simply dazzling . this film could be enjoyed solely for its bright orange , red and yellow patterns , giving the eye a startling light show to feast on , as the camera is constantly moving from one thing of beauty to another . it is worth noting , that there is no criticism by the director for any of his characters , no matter how they screw things up . the problem with all this adulation is that all the flattery has a hollow ring to it , it is just too good to be true , and his characters are not completely believable because of this . the film's strength lies in the emotions of the characters ; their close-ups revealing an inner strength in them , that no matter what they've been through , they will stick together and not succumb to their overwhelming problems . a pregnant nun in an almod ? var film shouldn't be that surprising to his fans , in fact what else should they expect ! this is another of the director's themes , of how the ones who are supposed to be normal and try so hard to convey that impression , are really fakes , while the ones who are considered to be oddballs in society , could be the normal ones , who are at least living out their fantasies . the hurt look on rosa's face after her father leaves , gives us a picture of her thought process that is better than dialogue , it is one that is worth savoring . there is one scene when agrado announces that the performance of " streetcar . . . " of course , this clears most of the audience out , with those few remaining being mostly the young and more daring ones , the same audience that has sustained the director over the years . she proceeds to tell how he got put together into a she and how much each part cost , in a comic bit that seemed , at least it did to me , that the director was trying to please his audience too much . trying the actors were all splendid . i was particularly impressed by marisa paredes' subtle but invigorating performance . the aging actress had a certain air about her that invigorated every scene she was in , showing how vulnerable and engaging an actress she is . but when the spotlight was on marisa , what the director was trying to say about actresses' had a clarity about it that didn't seem forced . but still , what makes an almod ? var film special , is his eye for visual effects . i haven't seen a more stunning visual film all year ( it is comparable to kubrick's " eyes wide shut " ) . i was so dazzled by the visuals , that the film's metaphors , bizarre tale , and great actors , seem to take second place to the visual splendor of the film . as good as this film is , one of the problems almod ? var still has , is that he can't make his outrageous characters distinguishable from caricatures . this cloy act of his does not make agrado any more compelling . one must give almod ? var credit for getting his voice heard in the mainstream while keeping his artististic integrity intact . that is not an easy thing to do and the director has used the popular vehicle of hollywood melodrama to add his own sense of culture and literary references to it , despite the differences i have with his approach to the characters and their development . the film's story line is ludicrous but the hurt the characters receive as perceived by them is real . almod ? var retains in this work an intriguing call for the bizarre , that keeps the film from descending toward being a hollywood one . but it also never reaches great artistic heights . there are no breakthroughs in character study . this is basically still a message film . a most amusing and diverting portrayal of the sexually ambiguous , but not a great film . the critical success of this film makes for strange bedfellows , when the 'chic' cannes crowd hooted in disappointment that the film wasn't chosen as the best one in the festival , but cheered when almod ? var won for best director , they now might be considered as part of the usual almod ? var fan base of weirdoes and independent-minded movie goers , a fan base that seems to be growing to accomodate a different type of enthusiast , one that is more establishment orientated . 
0	and now the high-flying hong kong style of filmmaking has made its way down to the classics , and it isn't pretty . this time out the nod to asia goes by way of france in the excruciating bland and lukewarm production of the musketeer , a version of dumas's the three musketeers . by bringing in popular asian actor/stunt coordinator xing xing xiong -- whose only prior american attempts at stunt choreography have been the laughable van damme vehicle double team and the dennis rodman cinematic joke simon sez -- our musketeers are thrown into the air to do their fighting . the end result is a tepid and dull action/adventure rip-off that stinks of indiana jones and bad asian kung fu . the story is so simple my grandmother could have adapted the screenplay . director peter hyams ( end of days ) obviously wanted to blend eastern and western filmmaking styles , but here it's a disaster . one problem is that , in reality , most eastern films have taken their lead from western ones . jet li's high risk is a rip-off of die hard -- not the other way around . ironically , there is awfully little swordplay or action in the film at all -- maybe ten minutes of swashbuckling spread over five scenes . most asian action films carry the bulk of their production with 20- to 30-minute action sequences , because they know the scenes have to carry the picture . chambers' d'artangnan isn't a musketeer -- he's a mouseketeer ! and hyam's use of candles and torches to light the grime and filth of 17th century paris are well-noted , but that's the only standout in an overall flat production . rating : * 1/2 |------------------------------| \ * * * * * perfection \ \ * * * * good , memorable film \ \ * * * average , hits and misses \ \ * * sub-par on many levels \ \ * unquestionably awful \ |------------------------------| mpaa rating : pg-13 
2	screenplay : scott silver . mpaa rating : r ( sexual situations , adult themes , profanity , violence ) running time : 100 minutes . there are moments in the course of performing this job that i wish i had the director in front of me so i could just shake him . it isn't the terrible films which get me so worked up , because there is no amount of sense i could shake into directors in those cases . rather , it is the near miss which frustrates me most , when i see a potentially fine film disappearing into a fog of pretension . apparently the subject of street hustling is particularly conducive to sending directors into fits of artistic incontinence . there is an affecting human drama in there , if you can wade through the symbolism to find it . there is , however , something pleasantly unfamiliar about the authenticity of johns' setting . the unique dynamics of these characters' lives should have been enough to sustain johns , but silver isn't satisfied with telling his story in a straightforward manner . there are plenty of moments when silver doesn't seem aware that , sometimes , less is more . it is a particular shame when distractions interfere with a performance as uniquely compelling as david arquette's . we know he is doomed from the moment he reveals that " nothing bad ever happened to me while i was wearing my lucky sneaks , " but arquette refuses to make him a lost soul/victim of society . john has no sense of a future , so he takes any action assuming that he won't have to deal with the consequences , and he uses people with a similar disregard . this dream leads to a surprisingly touching moment involving the hotel's desk clerk ( richard kind ) , one of several sparkling scenes silver gives to his supporting characters ; another clever bit finds jimmy the warlock becoming a bit less menacing as he struggles with basic subtraction . silver had great actors working with great characters , so it is disappointing that johns is only a good film instead of a great one . with time , i hope scott silver learns what a great chef understands : presentation should complement a fine meal , not overwhelm it . you don't serve up a filet mignon just to smother it with parsley . 
1	director : jon amiel . mpaa rating : pg ( profanity , adult themes , mild violence ) running time : 92 minutes . at last we can answer the question that has plagued movie-goers for ages : what would the pink panther films have been like if bill murray had played inspector clouseau ? all right , perhaps " plagued " is too strong a word . in fact , it's likely that no one has ever asked the question , probably because the answer seemed obvious . clouseau was similarly convinced ; he was also thoroughly self-deluding . playing clouseau would require murray to play dumb with complete earnestness . could he really stop winking self-knowingly long enough for us to buy him as an idiot ? the answer , unfortunately , is not really . the man who knew too little is a de facto clouseau premise , casting murray as a schlub named wallace ritchie whose unreasonable dreams of acting prowess have been diverted into working at a blockbuster video in des moines , iowa . though the comedic mistaken-identity premise is sporting more than a few gray whiskers , it can still work with the right lead performer . murray is a wonderful comic actor , the kind who can turn a simple reaction take into a monster laugh , but he is at his best when asked to stand outside the action and comment on its absurdity . eventually , the premise begins to feel like an elaborate waste of murray's time . ironically , the man who knew too little is still at its funniest when it just lets murray be murray . his off-hand quips are frequently good for a chuckle , providing goofy running commentary on the overly elaborate silliness of secret agent capers . they're also entirely out of place for his character . murray is sharper than this concept , and he shows it by spending most of his time looking for gags in all the wrong places , fighting against the premise instead of trying to make it work . there are a few worth-while moments for the supporting cast , notably alfred molina as a russian agent who develops a grudging respect for his " brilliant " american adversary , which show signs of life in a generally under-whelming script . for the most part , the man who knew too little is a less-than-stellar episode of the bill murray show , sporadically amusing when it doesn't burden the top attraction with an over-stuffed plot -- german businessmen , british and russian secret agents , a hooker-with-a-heart-and-wardrobe-of-gold , exploding matryoshka dolls , and what the mcguffin was going on with those carefully tied letters everyone gets so worked up over ? -- ill-suited to his talents . it all adds up to more stuff for murray to smirk at , in a role where smirking should have been strictly prohibited . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	albert brooks has always been a filmmaker who couldn't resist a great high concept . an inspired , outrageous situation has provided brooks with the spark to show his characters -- notably himself -- coming to terms with themselves and finding a little dignity . his concepts fueled the gags , but he never forgot to tell a story . the muse seems to have been born as yet another hollywood satire , poking fun at the insecurities of movie folk and ther fascination with the latest insta-cure for what ails them personally or professionally . the insider gags , unfortunately , are about the only ones that work . more often , the muse is a comedy in search of something , _anything_ funny to say . sharon stone's finicky diva is an idea that never quite takes off , and the supporting players often look vaguely bored with their lines . even brooks' usually reliable persona can't jump-start the film , because it doesn't turn into a sympathetic character . he's just an annoyed privileged guy whose annoyance at his slightly lessened privilege makes him just plain annoying . brooks' lack of a character is part of the over-riding problem with the muse : a lack of anything substantial past the thin premise . the film occasionally looks like it could be leading stephen towards a little growing up , whether about his career neuroses or his retro-breadwinner agitation at laura's growing financial success as a cookie-maker . there's even the faint hope that brooks could be offering a light-hearted look at the shove people require just to believe in their own talents . then the film ends , and it becomes evident that there's not a shred of actual story to the muse . there's no improved mutual understanding in the phillips' relationship , no one grows , no one learns a thing -- there's not even the satisfaction of sarah explaining her own turns of character . the whole thing just fades to black , leaving a shallow collection of industry jokes in its wake . there are a few decent laughs to be found in brooks' validation of william goldman's line about how " nobody knows anything " in hollywood . mark feuerstein has a nicely understated role as a tactless studio executive , and steven wright appears briefly as the nepotistically- advantaged stan spielberg . but much of the acidic humor leaves a sour aftertaste once it's clear that it's all little more than a chance for brooks to vent . his character spends much of the film in search of a third act for his screenplay , which is ironic when you consider that the muse is in desperate need of a third act of its own . it's even more ironic that in the middle of a hollywood satire , the protagonist's brilliant script -- the one he's inspired to write after being told he has " lost [his] edge " -- is a wacky high-concept vehicle for jim carrey . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	they don't come gooier than this feel-good fluff piece without being too sugary for consumption . it's a romantic comedy that spins every formulaic device possible into overdrive to come up with its cutesy love story , missing only the presence of julia roberts and any sort of genuine passion . it plays as if it was an ad showing how the 'beautiful people' spend some quality time doing the nyc scene by taking in the waldorf astoria , bloomingdales , central park's wollman rink , and when looking up toward the skies they can even spot nyc's tallest skyscaper--the empire state building . it was all so superficial and predictable . the comedy was oooh so heavy-handed and the romance was unbearably contrived . to get in the mood for this goo , one has to find numerous coincidental situations believable even if they are not possible , which was asking too much from me . if you like a flick that's pretty to look at , has attractive leads , sells its love story like a $100 hooker sells herself at night in times square , is brainless and anti-septic , and requires no thought , then this film might be in your diet . after all she 'reasons , ' if that's a good word to use in this film review , they are both currently involved with someone else . house before a fireplace and a bunch of burning candles placed on stands at different heights in a setting that looks like it's an ad for furnishings placed in a bloomie's catalogue . can you guess if they will succeed ! the film gets comedy relief from the supporting cast . the one bit he does that saves this film for me , is write an hilarious obit for jon based on what the greeks might have said if they wrote obits for someone who died for love . he provides some laughs , except he hangs around too long in the story and begins to become tiresome . you can believe as this film does in " fate determining one's future , " but it does an awful job in proving its case . though , i've seen much worst romantic comedies . in this one , at least , the leads who didn't inspire me , didn't turn me completely off . which is the best i can say about this flick . 
0	if writer/director tom tykwer ever comes out with a film entitled the greatest , it's a shoo-in to win the oscar . last year , tykwer burst onto the american scene to much acclaim with his perfectly named run lola run , a movie which almost made my number one choice for best movie of the year . exhilarating and exhausting , watching it is like running a marathon and winning . three marathons to be precise . winter sleepers , i am extremely sorry to report , is aptly named . viewing it is a perfect remedy for insomnia in winter or any other season . in run lola run , the dialog was fine but not particularly important since it was the intensity of the action that carried the movie . winter sleepers , on the other hand , has the actors babbling so much drivel that it sometimes reminded me of the episodes of rbtv ( really bad tv ) in the new picture , the adventures of rocky and bullwinkle . the story is set in a snowy bavarian landscape that is made palpably cold and stunningly beautiful by frank griebe's cinematography . the interior sequences , however , are as dull and uninteresting as the exterior ones are magnificent . staying awake is hard during winter sleepers and , in retrospect , not especially necessary . if the movie has an audience it is probably among film students looking to see how successful directors develop their craft . certainly there are a few undeniably effective touches in winter sleepers that later show up spectacularly in run lola run . but , if you're not a film student , there are many better movies more worth your time . winter sleepers runs a long 2 : 02 . it is not rated but would be r for sex , accident violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	my best friend's wedding is the estrogen alternative to the vast quantity of testosterone being pumped out by the other major june releases : con air , speed 2 , batman and robin , and face/off . as the summer's centerpiece romantic comedy , my best friend's wedding boasts a pair of a-line actresses , julia roberts and cameron diaz , dueling for the affections of the unprepossessing dermot mulroney ( the guy from copycat and the trigger effect , who is frequently confused with the equally low-key and same-initialed dylan mcdermott ) . fortunately , this film doesn't fall into the overcrowded category of the traditional frothy romance . in fact , my best friend's wedding has a bit of an edge and enough intelligence to keep it from drowning in the kind of mawkish sentimentality that often makes this sort of movie hard-to-swallow . australian director p . j . hogan must have a thing for movies about weddings . while this movie isn't as offbeat or " out there " , it defies more than a few expectations without ultimately dissatisfying the audience . as in any romantic comedy , the two most important elements are in place : the couples and the complications . because my best friend's wedding features a smart script and deft direction , it manages to keep alive the mystery of who will end up with whom . the film has a high energy level and features a number of standout scenes , some of which are designed to cull laughter from the audience , others which go for the tearducts . it's clever , irreverent , and fun . my best friend's wedding starts off slowly , and it takes the better part of a half-hour before we first start getting a feel for the characters . the actor plays his role in a low-key fashion that's an asset late in the film , but not at the beginning . cameron diaz turns up the good cheer and high spirits to an almost-unbearably lively level . and julia roberts , returning to the genre that made her a star , embraces the part like it's a homecoming . her performance as julianne is competent and comfortable , but the ingenue of pretty woman has been replaced a more mature performer , and this results in a better-rounded character . although my best friend's wedding is intended to be relatively light entertainment , it briefly addresses some interesting , serious issues regarding the nature of friendship , jealousy , and love ( real and idealized ) . there's a wonderfully evocative scene that suggests " a moment passing by , " which will undoubtedly cause a portion of the audience to reflect on similar occasions in their own lives . in the final analysis , my best friend's wedding represents two hours of fine entertainment not because it offers a feel-good love story but because the film makers understand that it's possible for a romantic comedy to appeal not only to the heart , but to the mind as well . 
0	what is it with demi moore ? one cannot watch her good , but older , films like ghost and a few good men without appreciating her talent . her latest , g . i . suffice it to say that it is rambo but with pretensions . her character in g . i . jane is accused once in the movie of trying to be joan of arc . indeed moore plays it like bruce willis playing joan of arc -- think die hard 5 , but with a message . the preachy script spends more energy philosophizing than worrying about the narrative . remarkably little happens in the film , but it is so preposterously presented and takes so long in unfolding that the first hour will seem like an eternity . " if a cannibal used a knife and fork , would you call that progress ? " since it's a film about our military , the leaders are shown , of course , as deceitful and in collusion . although all of the seal candidates are hurt , none are injured more so than lt . o'neil . g . i . jane is a needlessly gory film that is so over-the-top it is hard to decide what parts of it might be realistic . in a line so cliched that he must have had trouble delivering it with a straight face , he says , " remember , there are no bad crews , only bad leaders . " after drifting aimlessly from one outlandish scene to another , the tedious film's last third takes the asinine plot to new lows and makes the unbelievable first parts look almost plausible in comparison . ( g . i . jane manages to be even more ludicrous than the shadow conspiracy that i saw last week . at least that film had few pretensions of realism . ) and if that is not enough to take , there is the acting , or rather overacting . bancroft's heavy southern accent goes in and out like the tide . to be fair , the script gives her some of the worst of the movie's leaden lines . ( " don't ever think of playing politics with me , little darlin' , or you'll be up way past your bedtime . " ) people in the film don't converse , rather they engage in political monologues and sermonettes . " i'm not here to make some sort of a statement , " lt . o'neil informs the base's commanding officer upon her arrival . " if you were someone else , you wouldn't be making statements about making some sort of a statement , would you ? " usually reliable director ridley scott does not trust the audience to understand his points so he overemphasizes them and drills them into our heads through repetition . scott's uninvolving action sequences are little more than loud , and he seems obsessed with imbuing the film with a message with a capital " m . " although most of the film can be quite annoying as scott exploits an important subject , the picture does have its moments . hugh johnson's handsome cinematography gives the film an intensity and an honesty that the script lacks . cheri minns's stark make-up for demi moore shows the wear and tear on her face from too much water and too many beatings . and finally for those fans of moore's body , editor pietro scalia's favorite scene transition is another glimpse of moore buffing up doing one hand push-ups . personally , i would have preferred acting to sweating . g . i . jane runs overly long at 2 : 08 . it is rated r for violence and profanity . the film would be fine for mature teenagers . i give the picture thumbs down and * 1/2 for its unrealized potential . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	more aptly titled doa , were that name not already taken , flawless is an unappealing mess of a movie . written and directed by joel schumacher , whose last film was the sleazy 8mm , the movie has tonal problems from its gangster beginning to its madcap mayhem ending . sometimes it wants to be a gay comedy , other times it wants to pull your heart strings and still other times it wants to shock you with schumacher's signature violence . no matter what it tries , it rarely succeeds . best described as a comedic tragedy , the movie ladles on lots of attempted humor . it is the sort of movie that has one person -- in our audience it was the same one person -- laughing loudly and frequently , as the rest of the viewers watch stoically . de niro , turning in one of his most uninteresting performances ever , accurately portrays the speech patterns of his character but forgets to give him any life . the entire movie features labored acting whose presentation has the dullness of an old knife . although daniel orlandi's costumes are colorful , declan quinn destroys their effect with his grim and ugly cinematography -- more of the film's tonal problems . schumacher , who also gave us the abysmal batman & robin , can't seem to make up his mind whether he wants to make la cage aux folles or seven . whenever he throws in something fun , like the contrast between the conservatively-suited gay republicans and the flamboyant cross-dressers , schumacher feels compelled to destroy the moment . rather that just enjoy the visual delights of the situation , he writes rusty a diatribe against all republicans , even gay ones . none of this makes any difference because schumacher's narrative , or lack thereof , can't sustain the viewer's interest . there is no genuine chemistry between the two leads , and the movie never comes close to jelling . flawless runs 1 : 50 . it is rated r for pervasive language and strong violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
1	this is your traditional , lets play it conservative and do nothing that could upset or offend anyone sort of show for little tykes . the movie takes no chances . other than the obligatory , lets make them think someone is going to die scenes , it is a sugary sweet show . i found it frequently boring , but never offensive . then again , o'toole is such a beautiful actress , i really missed seeing her in the flesh . for it being a true story , for the wonderful seal ( he is really cute ) , and for the absolutely wonderful ending scene ( i came close to crying in a show that almost put me to sleep ) , i rate andre * * . i give it a mild thumbs down , and recommend it only to people under 13 . my 5-year-old boy liked andre , and he gives it a thumbs up , i should point out . the movie runs 1 : 35 . the mpaa rates it pg for reasons that totally escape me . the lion king was more pg than this show which is clearly a g . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	after recently having suffered through the press screening of joel schumacher's batman & robin , we decided to check out one of tim burton's originals . correctly criticized at the time of its release in 1992 as being too dark , it nevertheless has more imagination and energy than schumacher's latest two ( batman forever and batman & robin ) . as in all the batman films , the landscape is populated by a cornucopia of quirky characters . easily the best and only memorable performance in the picture is turned in by michelle pfeiffer as max's secretary , selina kyle . catwoman gets most of the better lines in the script by sam hamm and daniel waters . " oh , i forgot . it is her sly and understated intonation that makes the show's best line : " i am catwoman . hear my roar . " in print , it has no punch , but as delivered by pfeiffer , it has a beautiful and poetic energy . although many actors have tried to wear batman's heavy rubber suit and ended up looking silly , none more so that george clooney , michael keaton gives the most satisfying rendition . his bruce wayne and batman are dark and brooding like all of burton's films . without the levity of catwoman , batman returns would have been too much of a downer to take . the batmobile has more gadgets than any vehicle james bond ever drove . and danny elfman's dramatic music is full of symphonic power making the show resemble an elaborate and macabre opera . most of the violence is at the rock 'em , sock 'em cartoonish level , but some can be downright gory . the penguin hates the idea so much that he tries to bite off one of their noses . batman returns drags frequently , and burton has trouble controlling his dark tendencies , but still , thanks mainly to pfeiffer , it remains one of the better of an overhyped and too often unwatchably bad series . then again , since the series has generated a reported 4 billion dollars in batman merchandise sales , the quality of the films themselves are only of secondary importance . batman returns runs too long at 2 : 06 . it is rated pg-13 for sometimes gory violence . the show would be fine for kids around 8 and up depending on how sensitive they are to gore . in a somewhat marginal call , i give the film thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	director lawrence kasdan's latest movie is a romantic comedy called french kiss . all of his actors have unique and compelling personalities . this was one of his non-epic movies , but it certainly was populated with some fascinating and quirky characters . i want to confess up front that grand canyon was number one on my list in 1991 and big chill was in 1983 so i am huge fan of kasdan's body of work . the writing by adam brooks was quite funny . this piece of slapstick was pathetic and belonged , if anywhere , in another movie . i have no idea why the editor left it in . kasdan's directing was in the style of the big chill but with more comedy and less pretense about the need to deliver a message . granted , there was a message in the movie , but it was subtle and tertiary to the plot and the subplot . my respect for kasdan's craft continues . i frequently will think more of the writer or the director than the actors in a movie because writers and directors are the unsung heroes who are the determinates of whether a picture moves you or bores you . in french kiss , as good as the writing and the directing was , it was ultimately the incredible performance by kevin kline that made the movie . kline is a versatile actor who has made the screen come alive in many other films . my two recent favorite roles of his were in dave and in princess caraboo - both of which i recommend highly . there is no role of his , including his academy award winning role in a fish called wanda , that i liked better . this film has to be rated a must see for all of you kevin kline fans . i would go to see any film with meg ryan in it . she is cute , captivating , and intelligent yet always child-like and vulnerable . in french kiss , she is terrific and yet , her performance pales in comparison to kline's . this is his movie . in the year 1980 , timothy hutton was brilliant in ordinary people . it has been straight down hill for him ever since . he has been so bad in many recent films , e . g . , made in heaven , that they made my worst of the year list . he stays consistent and never bothers to act or show any emotion in french kiss . this is no easy feat since he is being actively pursued by someone as cute as ryan and as drop down dead gorgeous as anbeh . hutton manages to be oblivious to both . major control i suppose or ice water in his veins . the acting by the minor characters is good . reno plays the cop with a fresh approach . i especially liked the acting by anbeh , who takes a minor part with almost no lines , and manages to make the just stand there and look beautiful role interesting . i wish i knew the names of the costume designers and the makeup artists since i think they deserve special mention . the costumes , especially the evolution of the costumes and the makeup for the two women leads was a key to the success of the film . you can see it in the clothes , the make up , and in juliet's later , stark hairdos . the cinematography was striking without ever being traveloguesque . if you notice the fade to black of the most of the scenes , it fades fast at first but then lingers until only a dark shadow against a black background remains reminiscent of a memory locked into our subconsciousness . as someone who grew up in the 50s and 60s , i liked the double meaning of the title . when i was a young boy , a french kiss was a proscribed activity that you giggled about in the schoolyard and yet anxiously and fervently awaited your first chance at it . french kiss runs just right at 1 : 50 . it is rated pg-13 for some bad language , subdued sex , references to drugs , massive smoking by luc , and adult themes . this was crazy for it surely bored them all . for the adult humor and romance , i would say kids older than 9 or 10 would like it . i recommend it to you and award it * * * . for comparison purposes , i should say that i prefer the other current romantic comedy , while you were sleeping , over this one , although they were close enough that i rated them the same . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 5 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	monument ave . what makes this over-used type of storyline for many recent films , stand out from the rest , is that there is no mistake , this is the actual mentality of the neighborhood . the film is seen through the eyes of bobby , the film's low-life protagonist , we are stuck with him , perhaps , to a certain extent even commiserating with him , seeing that he can't escape from being born into a life of crime , even if he has a good mum and doesn't appear to be a really bad sort of a person , just a little wild and rough in spots . that is the deep sadness about the film , it traps everyone into its malaise , and we feel that there can be no getting out of the neighborhood or the criminal ways these street people cling to . it all seems so pointless . monument ave . works well as a potently atmospheric film , that captures the mood of a neighborhood but cannot penetrate the souls of the individuals who live there . they have inane conversations about movie stars' tits and their frivolous adventures , while snorting coke and getting boozed up . but , even with all this bravado , they feel and act like losers . as the message is simply , that nothing changes here . 
1	you see , he is a master of disguise and figures that he can pull it off . director clint eastwood is a master as well , and the carefully choreographed sequence of luther's converging enemies is the best part of the picture . even if the end result is predictable , the elements of his escape are not . thrillers like this hinge on the ability of the audience to buy the story's logic . even if they have to suspend disbelief some , they want it to be within some parameters of reason . absolute power pushes these limits of credibility . although there are many of these implausible events throughout the story , let me just give a couple of early examples . in this story luther suffers from highly selective brilliance . i usually stick to reviewing films as written , but i will break my pattern for this movie . they could have easily made the president's character more credible . the cover-up could then have started simple but gotten out of hand without the overly massive and sinister overtones of absolute power . besides the ridiculousness of the plot , some of the acting is terrible . embarrassingly bad as the president , hackman wastes his great talent on a poorly written character . judy davis overacts so much that her part becomes a parody . along with the disastrous parts of the film , there are several promising subplots . he tells sadly her , " you're the only family i have . " to which she retorts bitterly , " luther , you don't have me . " laughs luther . " if i could do that , i'd be the star of my aarp meetings . " at the end of the interview , luther tells him , " i've got to go have my pacemaker checked , it has been so exciting talking to you . " some of the acting is exceptional albeit relatively wasted . harris , eastwood , glenn , and linney are all wonderful , but as soon as you get interested in their characters , the script insults your intelligence again . this frustrating film finally comes to an satisfying ending , but one that wraps up the loose ends all too neatly . absolute power runs too long at 2 : 00 . most teenagers should be able to handle the picture . the film gets a mixed review from me , but the good slightly outweighs the bad so i give it thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	simply put , this is one of the best crime films ever made . especially considering that it was made on a budget of only $230 , 000 . it most closely resembles in style and scope the work of the great french directors jean-pierre melville and jacques becker , as a classic noir tale depicting man's foibles of greed and betrayal . the the robbery itself is told in multiple flashback style , as each character gets a chance to tell his version of the story , which is done in parts , so that each character's story is not only told but the film is able to jump back and forth in time , allowing for several events to happen together . she also clearly had the two best lines in the film : if people didn't have headaches , what would happen to the aspiren industry ? what makes this film so tense and gripping , is the exacting details that went into making this caper work , as it is seen through the eyes of the odd mixture of characters who commit the robbery . the point made , is a theme that kubrick will return to many times in his long career in films , that their perfect robbery fails because of the human condition they couldn't control and not because the robbery wasn't perfectly executed . it fits in with kubrick's notion of life : that it is vital for one to see how the pieces are played out on the chess board and how the player who does not always have the best strategy or execution can still win by learning how to persevere and change as the game does . as one of kubrick's early features , it remains one of his greatest films , even without the added visual dimensions he was to pour into his later high-budget , more complex movies . the outstanding cast made everything look natural , and the gritty realism of the story was only enhanced by the glorious b/w cinematography . 
2	starring : leslie cheung , zhang fengyi , gong li director : chen kaige producer : hsu feng screenplay : lilian lee and lu wei based on the novel by lilian lee released by miramax films chinese with english subtitles initially banned in china but shown to international acclaim , chen kaige's film is one of the year's few true masterpieces . deserving of its award at cannes and of its prominent position in 1993's new york film festival , farewell my concubine is a motion picture experience that few will soon forget after leaving the theater . it is integral to the plot , its thread as important to the overall weaving as any other . these two are as close as men can be--yet dieyi wishes for even greater intimacy . the subject of homosexuality is only once overtly referred to in farewell my concubine , but its presence is at once subtle and obvious . chen kaige has done a fabulous job portraying these various relationships with depth , sensitivity , and realism . just when you think you understand all the facets of the relationships , something else is uncovered . character development of this sort is almost unheard-of in today's movies . dieyi is the most fascinating character . in childhood , the refrain of " i am a girl " is drilled into him so that he can effectively assume the role of the concubine in the opera but , as another character observes , the line between reality and acting has become blurred . it's no wonder that his soul is so tortured . xiadlou is a more straightforward personality--at least on the surface . nevertheless , through his ever-changing relationships with dieyi and juxian , he proves that apparent simplicity often hides strong currents . it is eventually one of his actions that propels this movie to its literal and emotional climax . the communist movement is not shown in a positive light . while not specifically a force for evil , communist attitudes contribute to one of the movie's most emotionally-shocking scenes . no film can ever hope to convey the complex mosaic of cultural upheaval caused by everything that happened between 1924 and 1977 , but farewell my concubine does an excellent job presenting samples of the flavor . americans viewing this picture will find some portions difficult to follow because of cultural differences , but they will ultimately gain more than they lose . if there is a down side to farewell my concubine , it's that several scenes , as well as the motion picture as a whole , run on a little too long . this is a minor quibble , however , and one easily endured considering the high quality of the finished product . better to cut judiciously than to hack out something important . she is , as usual , excellent , but no more so than her two co-stars , both of whom effectively realize difficult and complex personalities . for the supporting actors , there's not a weak performance to be found . sadly , there are some for whom this movie will turn out to be a dreadful bore . first and foremost , it requires more than two hours and thirty minutes of reading subtitles , which a disproportionate number of viewers find distracting ( if not offensive ) . secondly , while there are bursts of often-passionate action , the pace of farewell my concubine is leisurely , allowing time for characters and situations to breathe . certainly among the best films of 1993 , farewell my concubine can stand up favorably to any of the other contenders . it is also , in my opinion , the best chinese film ever to reach these shores . i haven't seen any of chen kaige's other films ( i believe this is his fifth or sixth directorial effort , and the first to get widespread international distribution ) but , on the strength of what he has accomplished with this picture , i'll be on the lookout for his next project . if it's half as good as farewell my concubine , it will still be a worthy effort . 
1	in the love letter by hong kong comedy director peter chan , this premise is developed into a quirky romantic comedy . the script by maria maggenti , based on cathleen schine's novel , is peppered with cutesy dialog and slapstick situations . choosing not to emphasize the romantic angle , the film feels more like a pilot for a television sitcom than a movie . although it certainly has its moments , the one-joke story quickly wears thin . helen and george both wear old fashioned , black horn-rimmed glasses . passion easily overcomes their age gap . the letter will infect many others , but its effect will vary . the movie makes it too obvious who actually sent letter , although the details surrounding it aren't divulged until the end . most of the picture is a near miss . the romances are almost credible but not quite . the jokes ignite sometimes , with degeneres getting the best one , but mainly they just sputter . the movie tries to hard to be funny and not hard enough to be romantic , as if its title should have been the funny letter . the shame is that the movie has potential and , with a little different emphasis , could have been an unqualified success . " save me ! " and save us all from directors and screenwriters who can't create genuine characters , ones worth more than a few giggles . it is rated r for a little profanity , partial nudity and sexual situations and would be fine for teenagers . 
2	this is an unrated show , but could be nc-17 . i have trouble writing g rated reviews of nc-17 class movies . let me say the film involves solo sex , incest , death of parents , stale bodies and other activities . by now you probably get the basic idea . this is a film that is better seen that described . it features some great acting . the script is excellent and full of surprises . if you can enjoy quirky shows , this may just be your cup of tea . personally , i liked it a lot and gave it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 7 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	an amusing and sophisticated espionage thriller , only slightly flawed by some of its contrivances . he's a disgraced m . i . -6 but andy is a go-getter , a schemer and an opportunist without scruples . geoffrey rush is the timid man trapped in the post-noriega panamanian intrigues , and pierce brosnan is the seducer without morals . they play one another off in a most refreshingly joyous way , as for a while is hard to tell who has the upper hand . under john boorman's ( deliverance/hope and glory ) competent direction , the film has air to breathe for its smart storytelling tale and parody . the joke is how readily the americans buy into this unreliable info without thoroughly checking it out , and how this quickly turns into an international disagreement between panama and the u . s . . this farce works out fairly well . the script is tight . the directing is impeccable , the acting finely tuned , and the mood it sets is for a thinking man's picture to develop amidst all the comedy . the digs i liked best were : 'you know what the poor call those ? ' launderettes ! ' this is not an ordinary commercial formula film , but it's more like harry's handmade suits rather than those suits bought off the rack . 
1	i have no idea whether equinox is a cleverly-devised satire on these kinds of " identity movies , " or whether it's a bad melodramatic addition to the genre . this ambiguity in itself is not a good sign , since if the director was going for the parody , he should have done something to tip off the viewers . instead , while we get a few hints that this might be the case , there are at least as many pointing to the other alternative . the characters are all weird . not " weird " in a delightful , quirky sense , but in a way that feels annoying . there's no one to relate to , and writer/director alan rudolph doesn't attempt to make any of his principals accessible to the audience . the rest of the cast populating this movie is no more healthy . except in a few places where rudolph makes it clear that he's poking fun at something , the dialogue is atrocious . most of the lines spoken by henry sound scripted ( rather than natural ) , and freddy is constantly spitting out hard-boiled dialogue from a grade b detective flick . there are times when it's almost painful to listen to these people speak . the acting is uniformly unimpressive--ranging from pedestrian to downright bad . he's better as freddy than henry , but neither role is a masterpiece of subtlety , and it's clear that his grasp of either character is limited . lara flynn boyle isn't particularly impressive either . it seems that she , like modine , felt a need to go over-the-top to show the emotional fragility of beverly . there are a few instances when she's on-target , but those are the exception rather than the rule . as henry's neighbor rosie the prostitute , marisa tomei uses her characteristically energetic style to overcome dramatic lapses in her performance . her scenes ( even though most of them include modine ) are the high points of this film . a pair of normally-reliable actors , fred ward and m . emmett walsh , produce characters with flatter personalities than what they're capable of , which opens up the question of how responsible the director is for the work of those acting in equinox . ward at least avoids embarrassing himself . not so for walsh , who is hideous as he goes way over-the-top . it's too bad that equinox is so riddled with problems , because there's a lot of soil here ripe for tilling . while there's nothing new in the premise of twins with radically different personalities , this has a unique angle that , if produced more coherently , could have been the foundation for a genuinely worthwhile movie . even given all the problems of equinox , there's something in the concept that encourages the viewer to stick with it , if for no other reason than to see what happens if and when the twins finally meet . actually , henry's life alone is worthy of a movie . freddy isn't a very interesting character , and there are few scenes with him that provoke more than a passing interest , but henry has a fascinating life . more time is spent on his affair with beverly , but there's still a lot left unexplored . a few more scenes with these two might have helped the movie immensely . equinox's basic storyline is interesting enough to have held my interest for the one-hundred plus minutes . however , from the beginning , i was aware of how saturated with problems the film's execution is . beyond the initial draft of the plot skeleton , nothing appears to have been done right . casting is dubious , scriptwriting sophomoric , and direction contributing to , rather than alleviating , faults . if the viewer chooses to look at equinox as a straight spoof , the movie still doesn't work , although many of the worst scenes take on a less embarrassing tone . given that perception , however , there's too much that no longer makes sense , such as why there are so many dry , straight scenes , including an ending that's designed to deliver a " powerful " message . this is a hard film to decipher , and one that's not really worth the effort . 
2	" and to all the critics who hated our last flick -- all is forgiven . " -- chasing amy's closing credits well , i didn't exactly hate mallrats , but i thought it was a comedown for kevin smith , the talented writer/director who debuted strongly with 1994's clerks . chasing amy fits in nicely with the director's previous two films . as in clerks and mallrats , there are numerous references to pop culture ( the ubiquitous star wars films , comic books , the archie comic strip , tv shows alice and star trek , and even a few in-jokes related to clerks ) . smith's brand of bawdy humor is also very much in evidence , although it should be noted that chasing amy isn't as hilarious as clerks . in fact , it could be argued that this film isn't even as funny as mallrats . instead , chasing amy finds other ways to satisfy its audience , and the result is the most complete and mature film of smith's short career . with chasing amy , it's easy to anticipate a certain degree of inventive humor , but what's a bit unexpected is the solid drama , effective romance , and strong characters . clerks worked because the dialogue sparkled , but smith has honed his screenwriting and film making skills since then . while chasing amy boasts the same keen interplay , that quality , along with first-rate character development , acts as a supplement to the smart , surprisingly original plot . the movie starts out as light as a feather , but it doesn't take long for us to realize that chasing amy isn't just another lark for smith . this movie is about something , and the deeper we get into it , the more we realize how emotionally on-target the script is . alyssa's project is the less testosterone-oriented idiosyncratic routine . but , whether or not it's really love , holden is in for a big surprise because alyssa is a lesbian . his observations about comic books , video games , and other aspects of life in the '90s are as insightful as they often are scathing . but this is nothing new -- it was evident in both clerks and mallrats . what's different here is that smith has crafted a touching , nuanced romance which may be the most memorable screen love affair since before sunrise . there are real human feelings and problems involved in holden and alyssa's relationship , and , every time the storyline threatens to devolve into a cliche , it somehow avoids the trap . there's also a rich subtext pertaining to the difficulty that many individuals face in attaining a level of comfort with their sexual identity . the best scenes are those that explore the evolving relationship between holden and alyssa . ben affleck and joey lauren adams , both veterans of smith films , develop an effective chemistry . adams , who looks a little like cameron diaz and sounds a little like jennifer tilley , displays surprising dramatic range and ability . like clerks , chasing amy doesn't shy away from profane conversations . there's even an instance when oral sex is compared to ( of all things ) the weather channel and cnn ( you'll have to see the movie to understand why ) . in fact , i can't print any of chasing amy's best lines here -- they're all r-rated . chasing amy is entertainment of the best sort . for nearly two hours , it keeps the audience enraptured . there aren't many missteps , and , those few that exist are minor and easily forgiven . chasing amy is touching , funny , sweet , and most important of all , real -- a welcome breath of fresh air . you can't ask for more than that from any motion picture , and you'll be hard-pressed to find a movie in theaters these days that offers anything more appealing , revealing , or enjoyable than kevin smith's third feature . 
0	and when sandler says anything , it means exactly that . do anything you want without any regard to whether it hurts you or others . it doesn't . the movie shamelessly tries to shock you -- from the unexpected , big gay kiss to the vomit scene so realistic that you can see the exact contents of julian's most recent meal . the sadistic movie has sonny showing julian how to have fun by tripping speeding rollerbladers with a stick . in the movie's signature comedy routine , sonny teaches julian how to urinate in public . the movie's most egregious action has sonny taking julian for a late morning breakfast at mcdonald's . if you don't get exactly what you want in life , when you want it , the movie wants us to feel empowered to demean those who've had the bad luck to cross our paths . the humor generally is on the level of laughing about whether julian can wipe his own rear . some jokes are funny , even if barely . " what is it ? " the movie , which celebrates bad behavior , will undoubtedly have audiences composed largely of 9-14 year olds , as was ours . the marketing of the movie is clearly aimed at that group . the tearjerker ending tries to eradicate the teachings of the rest of the movie with a big message that you should call your father up and tell him that you love him . it doesn't fly . nice sentiment , but much too late . it is rated pg-13 for language and some crude humor . the film is acceptable for teenagers but questionable for those much younger . my son jeffrey , age 10 , loved the film and gave it * * * 1/2 , saying it really cracked him up . except for the throwing up and spitting , he liked it all . 
2	highly acclaimed writer and director mike leigh's ( life is sweet and naked ) latest film is secrets & lies . the picture won the palme d'or at this year's cannes film festival , and the lead actress , brenda blethyn , got the best actress award for her work in the film . the picture is an incredible character study , that goes from morose to life affirming . it is a complex picture that is both tragic and comedic . most of all , it is a highly involving and rewarding film for the audience . it is also a tale of love and caring and deep longings , and of the awesome relentlessness of the passage of time . " as the show started , i was not sure if i was going to like it or not . the lead actress , brenda blethyn ( from a river runs through it ) as middle-aged cynthia , seemed about to give one of those performances like crissy rock's in ladybird , ladybird where the character is so unlikable that watching the show becomes a challenge . for the record , i loved crissy rock and ladybird , ladybird even if it is hard to stomach . in secrets & lies , this did not turn out to be the case , and the audience develops both an empathy and a love for cynthia . like a woody allen film , there is an hilarious sequence where we have short clips of different people having their pictures made . it had all of the critics at the screening in stitches . it is the classic house made not to be lived in . for a while , i didn't think she would ever stop crying . more on the character's name at the end of the review . the difference in the color of their skins is a metaphor for all of their many differences . parts of the mother reminded me of ratzo rizzo from midnight cowboy . given their apparent incompatibility , the audience almost wants to cry out , forget it already . the script is intelligent and never predictable . it tackles sensitive issues , and although the director lets the actors hang out their souls for all to see , it is never exploitive and always sensitive . it is also so funny that it would be possible to view the show totally as a comedy and ignore the messages , but that would be a pity . the sad cello music ( andrew dickson ) serves notice that the picture is to be taken seriously not matter how big the laughs . the one criticism i have is that some of the scenes go on too long , and the film would have been better had editor jon gregory been more vigorous in his approach . the script makes this and all of the other secrets and lies in the story quite plausible . the show can be enjoyed for the big story or the small ones . somebody always draws the short straw . " the show is a grand collection of complex characters , and all become sympathetic by the end . each has a story that will touch or amuse you or both . secrets & lies is a bittersweet comedy and tragedy that is wrapped up effectively . when it is over , you realize you have seen some incredible performances and a magnificent directorial job . i hope to see brenda blethyn's name when the oscar nominations come out . personally , i can not imagine a more horrible name , apologies to all of hortense's out there in the world , and i thank my lucky stars that i was born male with name i like rather than female with a name like hortense . the excellent actress playing hortense at least made me feel a little bit better about my close call with that hideous name . secrets & lies runs a little too long at 2 : 22 . at the time of the press screening , it had not yet been rated by the mpaa , but the little bad language in the show has a few f words so it will probably get an r . there is no sex , nudity , or violence , but it is a very intense show . it would be fine for any teenager , but not younger . i give the film a strong recommendation and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 29 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	some movies have dog written all over them . the more i saw the trailers to out to sea , the more i dreaded its screening . but sometimes , even seemingly hopeless films can prove better than one has any reason to expect . still , i would be remise if i did not admit that the show will be better received by the older folks than the younger ones . for those of us who can appreciate angst-filled gen x movies , action thrillers , and chick flicks , surely we can enjoy the humor from a couple of film veterans in their 70s . as the ending credits rolled ( complete with sweet dance numbers followed by some hilarious out-takes ) , my wife and i gave each other a i-can't-believe-the-show-was-actually-funny look . ( " did you see the chassis on that broad ? at this point in the show , i sat there smugly confident that my prediction of bomb would be right . as i watched the actors , their genuineness begin to take hold . a bit hunched over , they had charisma and style , and they crafted characters that were compelling even if sometimes too outlandish . cmdr . lemon plays his part seriously . surprisingly , the best part of the picture is a realistic romance between charlie and a gold digger named liz labreche played with infectious fun by dyan cannon . cannon is a two time oscar nominee whom i had not thought about in years . " i saw the way you were looking at my daughter's breasts , " liz warns charlie . ( " no such thing as too late . audience reactions can sometimes add to the movie-going experience . so it was at our screening . it was as if there were subliminal clue cards flickering on the screen . " yea , i have a question , " herb blurts out . " how do you get off this ship ? " you may feel the same way in the beginning , but stay aboard and get your sea legs . you'll meet some new friends and have some good laughs with them . certainly not the best cruise of your cinematic life , but a pleasurable one nevertheless . it is rated pg-13 for a little mild language and some sexual humor . the show would be fine for kids of any age , but they would probably need to be nine or so to enjoy it . i can't believe it , but i am actually recommending this show , not only to the seniors , who should especially love it , but to a general audience . it gets * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	cost of living is a modern noir film that does not use the familiar plot devices of that genre as it usually is used , instead devoting the entire film to studying one character and her reactions to being on the run . it is the type of role usually played by a man . the film might be about trying to find oneself , or about why you are going to a fishing village if you're not interested in fishing . the most profound line said by anyone in the film is said by edie falco : " things are not always what they seem- ben ! " the dialogue is muted . the film yearns to be a story about how impossible it is to be free in today's world and how everything one does hurts . it's different in mood and scope than the usual type of introspective film . the film hinges on falco's performance . i didn't buy it , so i failed to find the film engrossing . she seemed to be acting too hard to look as if she was loose and free . at the end of the film , we don't know too much more about her than we did at the beginning of the film . if you are looking for possible plusses in this hip neo-noir film , it might be in the director's visualizations . at least , this indie is original and is not the usual rip off you see of late . it should also be noted that i had trouble reading the opening credits . they were unclear on the video i watched . but what remained more unclear to me , was what this film was about . it was not a paricularly pleasant film to watch , and the violence in it , seemed misplaced . i had no feel for those in the film , therefore seeing the violence was much like reading a newspaper account of a tragedy occurring to strangers . 
2	traveller is the realization of that dream and a perfect vehicle to showcase his acting skills . bill paxton is a hard working actor who has had parts in almost fifty movies . although he has only recently been able to receive star billing , as he did in twister , he , nevertheless , generally raises the quality of any movie with which he is associated . his role in one false move and in aliens are the first ones that brought his talents to my attention . since then i have seen him in numerous pictures with his small role in the last supper being my most recent favorite . the movie travellers is a character study set within the context of this semi-mythical group . to what extent this group really exists in the united states is unclear , but the accuracy of the story has no bearing on the movie's appeal . ) gammon plays a grizzled guy who looks like a skid row bum . gammon , who has played small parts in over fifty films , gives a carefully understated performance , as does the rest of the cast . traveller moves slowly , but never drags . it just takes its time . actually , none of that is important . this is a story not about what happens but about the characters themselves and with paxton's marvelous performance , a story worth paying attention to . cinematographer jack green from the bridges of madison county takes his first hand at directing in traveller as well as doing the cinematography -- both are easy going . nothing harsh , well not much anyway . wiener has this sweet and innocent smile and twinkling eyes that make her part compelling without many spoken lines . the honky-tonk music of the film is pure fun . producer paxton describes the music as a variety of styles of the type you would hear on your radio while driving through the south . his old friend seymour stein , a record producer , liked the raw film footage so much that he arranged to have a bunch of great young acts record the songs for the movie . the result adds energy , poignancy , and humor to the picture . come on in and sit a spell , for traveller is a slow moving but entertaining yarn . without any special effects or computer enhancements , the movie contents itself with weaving a tale full of characters worth caring about . a small picture certainly , but a delightful one . it is rated r for sexual situations , language and a couple of violent scenes . the film would be fine for teenagers , but not any younger . i recommend this simple story to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	therefore the film chooses not to focus too much on the precocious kid's gift , going almost exclusively for his father's nightmarish visions to tell its tale . as a result , the lesson being becomes : never play mind games you don't understand with someone inexperienced and not completely reliable who has you under their power . though , at times , the story is close to losing it , getting enveloped in melodramatics , it manages to pull back and return to the family and their struggle with the existence of a ghost in their house and their marital problems , keeping the film suspenseful , allowing you to overlook if you care to , the many holes in the story . the film just lost control of what it had going for it that made it different from , let's say , another recent ghost film , the sixth sense , and plummeted it back into the world of the run-of-the mill films of that genre . it is illustriously shot and its ghostly visions are stunningly creepy . it also captures in its sights the good , bad , and ugly of chicago . this fast moving film has hooked onto the nuances of its working class neighborhood completely , and by being grounded with this kind of reality the ghost story becomes more effective . >from this character driven film , we learn that ghosts get angry when we don't respond to them properly . that the afterworld is a place that some of us more than others have a chance to penetrate and if we do , we better learn how to listen . kevin bacon plays the role convincingly , with just the right amount of skepticism and psychological tension , coming close but never going over the top , like a lesser actor might have been tempted to do . zachary david cope seems like a child who is used to seeing strange things all his life and is rather placid and accepting about it , playing his role as well as could be expected . but i did have some problems that what was happening to him was not more fully developed . i felt i didn't really know much more about him by the film's end than from its beginning . in both sequences ghosts are communicating with him . i just had the feeling that the kid could end up being a basket case if his folks didn't take some time to help him deal with his gift , and that even though they were hard working and nice people , they were not a very perceptive couple . what transpires is an ok ghost story , a suspenseful story of an ordinary couple trying to cope with something that they are not prepared for , and a weak murder story , that ruins the film , as it brings it down to earth in a most desultory manner . is the film worth seeing ? yes . it is entertaining and spooky , and you get taken on an emotional roller coaster ride . no . it is earthbound and contrived , and the ending is a stinker . take your pick , both answers are correct . 
1	he was replaced in the film by wheeler oakman , who doesn't have much of a part . the story was a conventional hero against villain one , but the film had a certain splendor about it that elevated its melodramatics . 
2	in this age of cynicism , it's unusual to find a film like wide awake . the movie , brought to the screen by sophomore director m . night shyamalan , is capra-esque in its outlook on life and death . and , while the ultimate result is somewhat uneven , there's no denying that wide awake contains its share of affecting moments , and the production as a whole offers enough solid drama and legitimate emotion to earn it a recommendation not only for adults , but for older children as well , who will relate to the protagonist and narrator . it's definitely a two hankie movie , though . and , like 1997's ponette , wide awake forces its main character to explore questions of religion and the afterlife . however , while ponette used a documentary-like approach to depict a young girl's confusion and pain , shyamalan's movie has a different agenda : presenting these issues within the framework of a modern-day fable . watching ponette was , at times , a grueling experience . the same is not true of wide awake , which leavens its serious moments with breaks of humor and lighter drama . the most obvious strength of wide awake is its appeal . the film creates likable characters who engage the audience , and the storyline addresses sensitive , emotionally-compelling issues without becoming cloying . at times , the movie is manipulative , but it's a gentle , rather than forced , approach . the credit for this can be sliced into three portions -- one to shyamalan , who wrote and directed the scenes ; one to neophyte actor joseph cross , who is believable as the precocious josh ; and one to robert loggia , who is subdued and amiable in a part that is , for him , atypical . wide awake contains other solid performances as well . likewise , dana delany exudes wholesomeness . rosie o'donnell has a small role as one of josh's teachers -- a nun with a passion for the philadelphia phillies baseball team . shyamalan has clearly matured since 1992 , when he wrote , directed , produced , and starred in his debut feature , praying with anger . wide awake is a smoother , more polished movie with a less porous emotional texture , a better-realized story , and more fully-rounded characters . this is an example of a young film maker taking a step forward with his second film rather than falling victim to the so-called " sophomore jinx . " while it's true that the script for wide awake isn't all that ambitious , too often relies on the exposition of an overly-verbose narrator , and includes a few necessary contrivances , what makes the film special are the numerous individual moments that shine . and , although the dialogue is too sophisticated for the way children really talk , it is intelligent enough not to leave us shaking our heads in dismay and disbelief . i left wide awake feeling the same way i did after seeing a number of frank capra's movies -- i was aware of the problems , but that didn't diminish the warm , fuzzy glow i was experiencing . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	no longer . strictly speaking , the film in neither a satire nor a black comedy , but there are heavy shadings of each woven into the narrative . . . . and justice for all's bleak , absurd look at lawyers would be hilarious if it wasn't so true-to-life . in the past twenty-five years , there have been countless courtroom dramas , most of which have tended towards the sensationalistic side of mediocre . . . . and justice for all is not one of those movies . although some of the action takes place in court , including one of the best-known trial sequences in the history of film ( pacino screaming , " you're out of order ! the movie is more about morality and ethics than courtroom shenanigans . . . . and justice for all has no part in the stock trade of shock witnesses and surprising revelations . the more you consider . . . and justice for all's message , and the means by which it is delivered , the more aware you become of how uncompromising jewison's attack is on the legal system . and those who genuinely care about their clients are foiled at every turn by the deeply-rooted hypocrisy and cynicism that defines american law . however , of all his oscar nominations , this is probably the least-deserved . pacino's intensity is undeniable , but the actor , who always works on the seam between restraint and overacting , crosses the line a few times too often . certainly , there are times when pacino is excellent , but he is not consistently so . of the supporting performers , john forsythe and jack warden leave the strongest impressions . there's nothing vaguely human about him except his capacity for vice . whether guilty or innocent of rape , he's still a villain . . . . and justice for all ends with the kind of bravura outburst by pacino that one might easily assume is designed to entice cheers and applause from the audience . but there's a subtle difference between this finale and the cornball conclusion of a later pacino picture , scent of a woman , which also featured a dynamic speech . here , the actor's words radiate real outrage , and what he says caps the film's central ethical dilemma about a lawyer defending a man he knows to be guilty . this is a powerful , cathartic moment that's neither exhilarating nor uplifting . like most of what precedes it , the climax of . . . and we need look no further than last year's #1 television event , the o . j . simpson trial , to understand everything that this film is trying to say . 
0	i'm guessing -- and from the available evidence , it's not a great guess -- that burn hollywood burn began life as an insider satire of hollywood excess , stupidity , ego and power-mongering . if so , the film that ended up on the screen ranks as one of the most spectacularly ironic unintentional jokes in film history . that left a film satire in the hands of writer joe eszterhas , as humorless a hack as ever put finger to word processor . and you could just smell the disaster brewing . if you're unfortunate enough to sit through burn hollywood burn , you'll still be smelling that disaster long after the lights come up . it's bad enough that burn hollywood burn has -- literally -- not a single laugh for its entire , blissfully brief 84 minutes . what makes it even worse is eszterhas' insistence upon telling every bad joke not once , but twice or even three times . michael ovitz references , showgirls references , oral sex references , whoopi goldberg/ted danson references -- all show up multiple times with all the subtlety that is eszterhas' stock-in-trade . the reduncancy even manages to turn actively offensive with some frequency , notably with the hilarious use of the word " feminist " as an identifying caption for every single female character in the film . those documentary captions , for all their leaden obviousness , allow the best insight into what's so hideously wrong with burn hollywood burn . not content to stick any hollywood type with only one jab from his rapier wit , eszterhas fills the screen with bullet points every time a new character appears . this is a petulant schoolboy's idea of satire -- pictures of hollywood insiders to which eszterhas has taken a pen to draw little moustaches and black out the teeth . the last stomach-churning straw comes when burn hollywood burn closes with out-takes over the closing credits , the kind that show the audience how much fun everyone was having making the film that just sucked an hour and a half of your life away . pity everyone involved with this excessive , ego-driven " satire " of excess and ego . it's too bad that only directors can remove their names from noxious material like this . otherwise , you might have seen credits for burn hollywood burn overflowing with alan smithees . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	the movie was unique in that it is the only children's movie i know that shows adults at their jobs . what really bothered me about the movie was the stereotypes it showed the kids about what it means to have a job and what capitalism is all about . in the movie , the family has a life of easy with every gadget possible , i . e . , a high and comfortable standard of living . this was obtained solely from george jetson's salary . the movie made you hate such a terrible and inconsiderate boss . the movie then teaches children how this profit thing is accomplished . this is a plant that was so automated that one person ran it before . a great economics lesson . in the end the children have learned that capitalism is all about spoiling the ecosystem and exploiting workers . sad . jetsons : the movie is rated g and runs less an hour and a half . i give the movie * 1/2 as they had about 10-15 minutes worth of cleaver ideas and fun gadgets - certainly not enough for a full-length movie . i suspect , on the other hand , that little ones will not realize or care that they are being brainwashed and will think the movie is a fun little diversion . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	screenplay : roger kumble , suggested by " les liaisons dangereuses " by choderlos de laclos . director : roger kumble . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , sexual situations , brief nudity , adult themes , drug use ) running time : 97 minutes . in these halcyon days of 'n sync , " dawson's creek " and the like , it now seems that you can sell any pitch in hollywood by naming a piece of source material and tagging on the phrase " . . . but with teenagers . " the most recent wave may have started with clueless ( " jane austen's _emma_ , but with teenagers " ) , and has since generated such classics as the faculty ( " the thing , but with teenagers " ) and she's all that ( " pygmalion , but with teenagers " ) . so why not cruel intentions ? because it's a really lousy idea , that's why , made even worse by appalling execution . if that all sounds considerably sleazier than the original dangerous liaisons , that's only because it is . writer/director roger kumble plays most of the film as though it's soft-core porn for teenyboppers , teasing with pseudo-incestuous fondling and money-shot close-ups of gellar and blair tongue kissing . to make matters even more unpleasant , kumble even plays an interracial relationship for titillation value , and goes for cheap laughs by introducing a pointless subplot in which a stud athlete ( eric mabius ) is a closet homosexual , complete with gratuitous slurs . in a depressing case of lowest common denominator film-making , kumble has appealed to his teen audience by reducing the themes of " les liaisons dangereuses " to " everyone has sex with everyone else . " in an even more depressing development , kumble may actually have the _best_ grasp of the source material . ryan phillippe , in a valiant but grossly misguided effort to do some acting , spends virtually the entire film aping john malkovich's performance in stephen frears' 1988 dangerous liaisons . every inflectionless line reading , every arched eybrow , every lascivious double-entendre is familiar , with no apparent adjustment for the fact that sebastian is a contemporary teenager instead of an 18th century nobleman . gellar is only a bit better in the lip-curling glenn close role , while selma blair plays cecile not as simple and innocent , but with a fumbling idiocy that makes her every moment on screen unbearable . only reese witherspoon brings a shred of dignity to the proceedings , continuing to show a wonderful presence for a young actress and an interest in finding something human in her character . unfortunately , that's an interest her director doesn't share . i suppose it shouldn't be surprising that cruel intentions is just another in a long line of glossy high school audience flicks , another film with a mind-numbingly incessant underscore of shuffle-beats and pop songs , another vehicle for pretty girls and even prettier boys to pose for their fans . it is sad , however , that these filmmakers have to keep picking promising source material for their libretti , then demonstrating no concern for that material whatsoever . it's a stupid and pandering film which will probably appeal to its audience perfectly , leaving the rest of us to sit back and wait for the inevitable " moby dick , but with teenagers . " see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	" remember , you're in washington . when a studio has a successful picture , as disney did in 1961 with the absent-minded professor , you can be sure that a sequel will soon be on the drawing boards . and just as the remake ( this year's flubber ) was better than the original , the sequel ( 1963's son of flubber ) also outdoes its predecessor . the sequel shines mainly because of a much more imaginative screenplay . bill walsh wrote the script for the original , but he was joined by don dagradi for the sequel . the resulting ensemble cast , with better material , clicks more often than in the original . the most notable difference is the sequel's heightened imagination and more frequent laughs . this is but one of many ideas the professor's backers have for a company to productize flubber . they've even devised a series of hokey and very funny commercials to market the substance . although some of the jokes , such as its breaking glass all over town , are repetitious and not particularly original , most of the humor is quite inventive and hilarious . in one of the show's many little one-line gems , alonzo rants at his son , " why , if you weren't deductible , i'd disown you . " the football game in this movie is much funnier than the basketball game in the original , thanks to a player bloated up with the team's secret weapon of flubber gas . " anyone who falls flat on their face is at least moving in the right direction -- forward , " the professor lectures the court at the showdown trial in the story's conclusion . the show itself is a gas and much superior to its ancestor . it is not rated but would be a g and is suitable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , said he liked the movie a lot and thought it was better than the original . 
0	this is a swiss cheese psycho genre film . there are just too many holes in the plotline of this hollow thriller for it to be convincing . the film is most successful in hiding its plot twists and its surprise ending but , in going for that and that alone , the film lost track of how unbelievable the story was becoming and how shallow all the characters were , except for the morgan freeman character . morgan freeman played the same role in the 1997's kiss the girls , and that mediocre film brought in lots of dough ( $60 million ) . so the producers must have thought , why not try and cash in on another mediocre thriller ! unfortunately , freeman can't carry this film on his back , though he almost does . he's so good an actor that he's usually better than the script he's given , as is the case here . the fun in this film might be in making a list of all the holes in the story , and whoever comes up with the first hundred wins a prize . once you get the error list rolling , you'll see how ludicrous this film is . i quickly counted thirty such flubs before i got weary and decided to give up my count . 
1	jingle all the way represents arnold schwarzenegger's fourth attempt at a " straight " comedy ( i'm not counting last action hero or true lies , which were highly action-oriented ) , and , like the others that came before it , this movie isn't all that funny . while it's true that the driving idea behind putting schwarzenegger in this kind of picture - - the big , hulking action hero struggling to overcome " normal " problems -- has potential , the film makers never attempt anything really ambitious . the result is a pastiche of silly , cartoonish action and variably amusing physical humor . another problem with jingle all the way is the premise , which lacks the substance and comic potential to form the basis of a feature-length movie . jingle all the way seems hopelessly dragged out , as if the film makers came up with a great pitch , then , once they got the go-ahead , couldn't figure out how to extend things beyond tv sit-com length . consequently , the picture sags noticeably in the middle as the director and screenwriters fight to extend the running length . back when twins was released , the idea of putting schwarzenegger in a comedy was both audacious and innovative . and , for the most part , it worked -- at least the first time . twins wasn't the funniest film of the year , but there was a certain appeal in watching the big man in such an atypical role . now that we've seen this conceit repeatedly , the uniqueness has worn off . schwarzenegger is , after all , more of a personality than an actor , so there are limits to how much he can bring to this role . jingle all the way has its moments , all of which are lowbrow . and certain aspects of the climax are legitimately hilarious . overall , however , the film is filled with too many stale spots . the few attempts at satirizing the toy market are unfocused and not particularly daring . sinbad , portraying a postal worker who is teetering on the edge , brings some life and energy to the production , but not enough to keep it from feeling much longer than it actually is . on the positive side , jingle all the way is suitable for family consumption . it's a genial , inoffensive movie , and all of the violence is exceedingly mild ( people get punched and kicked , but no one is seriously injured ) . the real problem with jingle all the way has nothing to do with its suitability for certain age groups , but its suitability in general . being good-natured and family-friendly has little to do with being consistently entertaining . jingle all the way is forgettable , and that , more than anything else , is why i recommend passing up this holiday offering . 
2	screenplay : raymond defelitta . director : raymond defelitta . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes , violence ) running time : 104 minutes . sentimentalized stories of the 1950s have become so commonplace in film that it's incredibly refreshing to find one that doesn't whitewash the darker side of the happy days . raymond defelitta's two family house is in some ways a familiar feel-good story , but it gives its good feeling an unexpected edge . for a while , two family house looks like it might turn into a broad comedy , with the italians and irish clashing loudly and perhaps farcically . in fact , she's scoffing at even more than that , as are buddy's friends in a slightly different way . what is ridiculous to them is the idea of anyone moving too far beyond the proscribed ethnic , cultural and even geographic boundaries . buddy's willingness to extend a hand to mary , just like his desire to pursue a career dream , suggests that the boundaries are a bit blurry . and the idea of blurry boundaries makes everyone around buddy more than slightly uncomfortable . even without its subtext , two family house is a funny , well-acted and tremendously appealing drama -- so appealing that it might even be perceived as fantastically generous to its protagonist . rispoli delivers a nicely nuanced performance as buddy , a teddy bear of a guy trying to move forward rather than look back in bitterness at missed opportunities or failures . it occupies that treacherous middle ground between comedy and drama where a film can either feel too frivolous or not frivolous enough . fortunately , defelitta understands how to make his film about more than its obvious premise without resorting to overly-weighty symbolism . culture clashes tend to be represented on screen either in strident sociology lectures or fish-out-of-water yuk-fests . it's an achievement that's not nearly as simple as it looks . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	in quite a contrast , the construction of this movie is symptomatic of much of the current degradation of our society . in the remake , producers brian grazer and russell simmon manage to transform a simple kids' comedy into the filthiest kids' movie i can ever remember seeing . certainly the show does have many funny parts , and eddie murphy does demonstrates tremendous acting bandwidth , nevertheless , as a picture marketed to youngsters and where the audience is filled with kids under ten , this film exemplifies all that is wrong in hollywood today . don't misread me . i am a libertarian when it comes to films . if produces want movies overflowing with bad language , that is a judgment call they get to make . however , in shows where the trailers make it look like good humored fun for kids , where the original movie was silly and innocent , where you know that a large portion of the audience will be kids under 10 and where the rating is pg-13 , one should not expect a constant stream of filthy language including crude sexual jokes about mothers . a few years ago , this movie would certainly have gotten an r , which would , of course , have decreased the box office take . to me this movie speaks volumes about the state of the country . adults should have their shows , but why do we think children should be taught the b and the n words ? the movie does have some good aspects and several big laughs , although not near enough for an adult audience . the film starts off quite promisingly . the plot by writers barry blaustein , steve oedekerk , tom shadyac , and david sheffield starts off to be a comedy with some serious messages . the messages surround how hard it is to get thin and how fat people are stigmatized and humiliated by society . the first message is trivialized , and the second is contradicted . the movie turns into a diatribe against fat people regardless of the movie's tacked on and moralistic ending . in an impressive acting demonstration by murphy we have him playing all of the roles of a large family with obese members . other scenes in the movie , thank goodness , do work better . jekyll and mr . murphy , who was so touching in coming to america , does his crude nightclub routine though most of the show . that he can play seven roles is an amazing testament to his inherent talents and to some great special make-up effects by rick baker , but why couldn't the sweet murphy come out when the picture calls for it ? why ? it is an r picture , but with an mpaa rating of pg-13 . do not take kids under 13 to see the show , and i would prefer to see teenagers be mature before going . in the end he gave the film a thumbs sideways . we try to investigate pg-13 films , but were lolled by the innocent trailers and the name of the picture to think this one would be okay . i do not recommend this lame picture to any age group , and i give it * 1/2 for a few nice laughs and excellent special effects . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	" there are mountains behind the mountains , " remarks one of the viewers of the first motion picture to be shown in peking . the images show a western world that is indeed far behind and beyond the chinese mountain ranges . barnum-type character , opens a " shadow magic " extravaganza to display his combination of home movies and english travelogue . set amidst the turmoil of a changing era as china reluctantly welcomes the twentieth century , shadow magic , which was " inspired by a true story , " is a good-spirited movie written and directed by ann hu . a stunningly gorgeous costume drama , the movie suffers from its nearly two hour length and its threadbare scripting . the lushness of nancy schreiber's cinematography almost makes up for the thinness of the characterizations . liu , the central character , has a large , silly grin plastered on his face through most of the movie . raymond isn't much better . what really works in the movie , other than the authentic and nostalgic sets , is the wonderment of seeing a new technology so entrance a populace . the movie effectively reminds us how revolutionary some of today's gadgets were just a century ago . the world changes more rapidly than we would ever believe . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles and in english . it is rated pg for brief mild language and would be acceptable for kids old enough to read subtitles . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	and therein lies the problem with the british comedy saving grace ; it is so low-key as to be almost no-key whatsoever . the situations in it are sometimes cute but never funny enough to provoke actual laughter . think of it as waking ned devine run at slow speed . there is even a brief scene of a scrawny old man seen running around completely nude , much like the naked , octogenarian biker in waking ned devine . frankly , one of those is enough . i've seen it ; i don't want to see it again . on the first occasion of the lighting , the movie plays " spirit in the sky " loudly . it is a moment worth a nice smile , even if no laughs . the moments that produced the most laughter in our audience were when the characters got giddily stoned with their weed . as they laughed uncontrollably on the screen , it became somewhat infectious . although it might seem that writers mark crowdy and craig ferguson were painting themselves into a corner , they managed to come up with an imaginative ending . even so , i'm an old-fashioned kind of guy . i prefer comedies that are funny . and i like to laugh every now and then . saving grace wasn't able to fill those simple requirements . it is rated r for drug content and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	cast : emilio estevez , anthony michael hall , judd nelson , molly ringwald , ally sheedy , paul gleason , john kapelos director : john hughes producers : john hughes , ned tanen screenplay : john hughes cinematography : thomas del ruth u . s . distributor : universal pictures when it comes to movies , there are two things that the early-to- mid-1980s are best known for : slasher films and teen comedies . while the former category was hard-pressed to give birth to a vaguely watchable entry , quality was widely variable in the latter , spanning the spectrum from the dregs of porky's to the top-notch entertainment of fast times at ridgemont high . in one way or another , hughes was responsible for the likes of sixteen candles , pretty in pink , some kind of wonderful , ferris bueller's day off , and the breakfast club . while all of those films were a cut above the sex and booze-drenched antics of most teen comedies , the breakfast club was arguably the most insightful and emotionally-true of them . the breakfast club is very different from almost every other entry into what was ( at the time ) a burgeoning genre . instead of relying on the staples of bare flesh , crass humor , and brainless plots , this movie focuses on five dissimilar characters , is almost entirely dialogue- driven , and doesn't offer even a glimpse of a breast or buttock . even though the premise sounds a little dry , the breakfast club is eminently watchable and consistently entertaining , even when it falters . perhaps aware that his primary audience would be the 14-to-18 year-old crowd , hughes added several surreal and silly sequences to interrupt the predominantly serious tone that suffuses the proceedings . these don't really work , but the shift in tone isn't sufficiently glaring to disturb the movie's overall flow . the characters trapped in detention are all very different individuals . hughes sets them up as traditional stereotypes , then delights in slowly peeling back the layers , showing how each suffers from surprisingly similar problems . pretty obvious observations , right ? yet few films before or after have dealt with these issues as intelligently as the breakfast club . another traditional hughes theme can be seen running throughout the entire film : the basic intolerance and stupidity of adults . the over-25 crowd rarely fares well in hughes movies , and this is no exception , but there is a scene in the breakfast club which attempts ( with limited success ) to partially humanize the authority figure . hughes has assembled a unique and singularly effective cast . molly ringwald , the star of three hughes films ( the other two being sixteen candles and pretty in pink ) , gives the strongest performance by showing the ugly , shallow side of being ms . popularity . few will argue that the breakfast club is a great film , but it has a candor that is unexpected and refreshing in a sea of too-often generic teen-themed films . the material is a little talky ( albeit not in a way that will cause anyone to confuse it with something by eric rohmer ) , but it's hard not to be drawn into the world of these characters . unlike many teen films , which seem to transpire in some kid's dirty imagination , this picture , despite its occasional flights of fancy , is grounded in reality . in the breakfast club , hughes has created a surprisingly enduring motion picture that is still effective 13 years after its theatrical debut . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	i'll be honest with you : the last thing i was expecting from the paramount-distributed trekkies was a warts-n-all documentary about " star trek " fandom . roger nygard's trekkies , however , is about as far from an officially endorsed whitewash as one could imagine . in fact , though its character studies are at times undeniably amusing , it's almost too focused on turning its subjects into the oddballs everyone already suspects trekkies of being . the bad news for many " trek " fans expecting a sympathetic portrait is that those two characters are among the more mainstream folks in the film . when the subject matter swerves into the pornographic fan fiction which has been created using " trek " characters , it no longer feels like nygard is just creating a comprehensive catalog of the manifestations of trekkie-ism . there's an element of side show exploitation to these aspects of trekkies , a sense that nygard is less interested in understanding the phenomenon of trekkies than in turning their eccentricities into punch lines . that's truly a shame , because the " why's " of trekkies could have been at least as fascinating as the " who's " . in an utterly unique way , the universe created by gene roddenberry affected viewers as no other television program has in the history of the medium . trekkies also touches on the impact of the show's positive portrayal of multi-ethnic integration , and on the optimism of its messages of inclusion and acceptance . such ideas should have made it easier to see trekkies as social outsiders who have embraced a mythology in which they are tolerated , and even celebrated . it's ironic -- and somewhat disappointing -- to watch the film turn them into social outsiders once again . there's no denying that trekkies is occasionally quite funny , whether in the answers of cast members to the strangest fan experiences they have had , or in the ways various trekkies have integrated their love of " trek " into their lives ( like dentist dennis bourguignon's " starbase dental " office ) . it was only after i left the theater that i realized i had been laughing at these people more than i was laughing with them . yes , there are comments about how intelligent most " star trek " fans are ; it's too bad they feel like token gestures . many trekkies themselves seem to have embraced the film , but i'm not sure they should appreciate the way they are turned into exactly what the broader population generally thinks of them . there's not enough balance between the unusual things these people do and the love that inspires them to do those things . it was brave of paramount to endorse a film like trekkies . it also seems like a bit of a betrayal . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	mpaa rating : r ( profanity , nudity , sexual situations , adult themes ) running time : 108 minutes . there were cries of outrage from adults who just didn't understand the rebellious messages of this new musical form , accompanied by the certain knowledge that civilization as we knew it was about to come to an end . and finally , there was the inevitable transformation of rebellion and singularity into its own kind of conformity . anyone at all familiar with the pistols would hope to high heaven that a film-maker wouldn't choose to tell their story in the measured tones of hero worship . julien temple has already documented the sex pistols in 1980's the great rock 'n' roll swindle , so there was the danger that the filth and the fury would feel not just like a canonization of a pioneering band , but a recycled canonization . instead , temple captures not just the energy of the pistols , but their satirical sense of playfulness as well . with music , animation and dozens of archival clips , temple compiles a film that doesn't merely lay out a sex pistols chronology ; it captures the atmosphere and the attitude of anarchy in the u . k . that's not to say that it's instantly reliable as the definitive sex pistols story . swindle may have been an obvious attempt at self-congratulation by mclaren , but the filth and the fury occasionally seems just as much like an ego piece for johnny rotten . rotten may very well be a more reliable historian of the pistols than mclaren , but when he and jones relate differing accounts of a hotel room snafu , it's hard not to here rotten's version as a bit of overdramatization . make no mistake , it's still tremendously interesting listening to rotten's perspective on the rise and fall of the band . that's actually a fairly minor quibble with a film as vital and generally unpretentious as the filth and the fury ( you don't get less pretentious than steve jones' crudely honest reason for wanting to be in a band ) . of course , he probably would be less concerned with the philosophizing than pure sensory jolt , and that's something the filth and the fury provides . it took the sex pistols two years to distill rock and roll into every one of its basic elements . it takes julien temple 108 minutes to do the same thing to the sex pistols . it's a story with the frantic , two-and-a-half-minute raw energy blast of a classic punk anthem . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	actress jennifer jason leigh has tremendous talent , and i have been a fan of hers for some time now . although she has been the best part of many films , my favorite pictures of hers are single white female and georgia . the only bad performance i ever saw her give was in kansas city , and i blame that more on robert altman's direction than her acting . luckily , i had never seen the film . at the of this review i have included some of the leigh's comments on the picture . ( earlier in the day at another film at the festival i looked at the woman sitting near me and reflected to myself , " hmm , she looks like jennifer jason leigh . " i glanced again , and thought to myself , " that's because she is jennifer jason leigh ! " she is small , vivacious , funny , and outspoken . it paints a bleak picture of a world without hope . it is a study of what happens when a metaphorical black hole absorbs all the joy of life . usually , when hollywood attempts pictures like this , they end up sugarcoating them so much that their message is diluted . here , director ulrich edel and screenwriter desmond nakano take hubert selby jr . 's bleak novel and bring it to the screen without apology . the heterosexuals hate and torment the homosexuals . the sets are gritty and full of tacky furniture from the 1950s . the cinematography by stefan czapsky is dark and somber with heavy shadows in every scene . i am not sure that you would be able to see it very well on a television since the contrast is so low . mark knopfler's ominous music takes place on the low registers with notes that are out slow and painful . the show is multilayered and has a large cast . although tralala is the glue that holds the story together , many of the parts both large and small are particularly well done . the best performance is leigh's . sal views injuring georgette as little more than sport . the film deals realistically and frighteningly with the problem of homophobic violence . in one scene georgette is stabbed , and the blood spurts like an artery was punctured . cinequest warned us in advance of the intensity of the picture , and they were right . there is one optimistic person in the film . after the film , leigh said that the incident was necessary and without it the film " would have been a cheat . " this scene should have gotten an nc-17 rating for the picture . i believe in 1989 the only choices were r and x so given that perhaps the r rating it got was correct at the time . after the ending , there is a brief epilogue . in it the first rays of hope shine through . like the first sunshine after a hurricane , its warmth felt soothing and somehow tranquil . after the film finished , leigh answered questions about it . she said that she really wanted the part of tralala , but patricia arquette was originally cast for it . none of the names were familiar to me . looking at paintings was not something i expected . " it is showing you a world without love , " she said when asked what the movie's message was . leigh said the film was good for her since it forced her , for the first time , to get in touch with her feelings . " i love it , " she retorted . an actress with a lot of talent , and one not afraid of speaking her mind . it is rated r for explicit and violent sex , nudity , graphic violence , dope smoking and profanity . the film is for adults and not for teenagers . although granted the film will be too intense for some , i give it thumbs up and * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 31 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	oliver stone is perhaps best known for his numerous politically- influenced motion pictures -- everything from his vietnam trilogy to jfk and nixon . now , with his latest audacious outing , stone has set his sights on a genre film . the result , called u- turn , is film noir steeped in excess . yet , although stone has clearly made this motion picture with his tongue planted firmly in his cheek , he nevertheless manages to capture all of the tension and mystery necessary to hold the viewer's interest . hence , while stone may be poking a little good-natured fun at the genre , he has also created a highly- successful entry to it . but , although much was different about the way the movie was put together , it still bears many hallmarks of recent stone productions . the excesses of the photographic style hearken back to natural born killers and include black & white inserts , numerous hand-held shots , overexposed sequences , hallucinogenic effects , and time-lapses . i'm not a big fan of this sort of camera trickery , since it seems designed more to show off a director's pretentiousness than to add anything significant to the motion picture . this approach helped sink natural born killers ; fortunately , it's only occasionally distracting here . the narrative twists and turns in a serpentine fashion , rarely proceeding in a predictable or straightforward manner for more than a few minutes at a time ( hence , the title ) . film noir aficionados will recognize and/or expect many of the plot's contortions , since there are various requirements that have to be met by any entry of the genre . however , anticipating certain occurrences doesn't necessarily diminish our enjoyment , and the film takes so many detours that at least one or two of them are bound to surprise even the most jaded movie-goer . film noir is always more plot-conscious than character-focused , and this is pretty much the case here . stone and writer john ridley have populated u-turn with a variety of colorful types , only a few of whom show the beginnings of multi-dimensionality . the best-developed individual is , not surprisingly , the lead . the denizens of superior are a strange lot . penn , one of his generation's best actors , makes bobby into more than just a moody loner . meanwhile , the sultry lopez plays up the ambiguities of her character , so we're never quite sure whether she's a good girl , a bad girl , or something in between . many viewers will recognize echoes of red rock west in u-turn . but , as fun and frantic as red rock west was , u-turn tops it , adding 30 minutes of running time and doubling the number of plot twists . plus , stone's lurid , graphic , in-your-face style is far different from john dahl's homage to '40s and '50s movies . u-turn is definitely not for everyone -- some viewers will find the juxtaposition of offbeat comedy and noir cliches too strange and others will be offended by the film's extreme violence . nevertheless , for those who enjoy movies on the edge , u-turn offers just the trajectory you might expect . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
2	this would-be m ? nage ? trois is complicated in that maxine shares lotte's passion but not craig's . whew . is this one wacky setup or what ? john cusack , a comedic master of both action and reaction shots ( most actors excel at only one ) , plays craig . his wife , lotte , is played with offbeat panache by a glamorous actress successfully made to look plain and completely different . since i didn't recognize her , i'm not naming her here in hopes that you will be just as surprised as i was . the absolutely hilarious and completely off-the-wall movie , being john malkovich by director spike jonze and writer charlie kaufman , takes one surprising step after another . with its escher print of a story , the energetic movie winds and twists with great glee . to get there , as any of the building's occupants can show you , all you need do is punch the emergency button on the elevator just after the seventh floor . sitting , however , poses no difficulties since the furniture is all of normal size . " so what do you do ? " " check ! " ( a running joke is that most people have no idea who he is , nor what any of his movies are . malkovich is great , finding one way after another to poke fun at himself . and if you think the great actor's time is all spent in intellectual pursuits , you'll be surprised to see him discussing bath towel colors with a catalogue sales rep on the phone , as he looks with displeasure at the leftover chinese food in his fridge . there are several good cameos . the more malkovich denigrates maxine , the more sheen wants to have sex with her . sheen's hair toward the end is embarrassingly and hilariously awful . malkovich does . i'm not about to reveal the answer but be prepared to laugh and laugh hard . so where do you land when your 15 minutes on the malkovich-mind roller coaster is up ? don't ask ; i don't know . the picture never explains why it works this way , but it's funny , no matter how often they show it . just go with the flow . don't question ; just laugh and enjoy it . still , i would have liked a small mention in the credits that somewhere in their subconscious the film must have been inspired by lewis carroll . being john malkovich runs 1 : 52 . it is rated r for sex and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	it's tough to knock a funny film for being not nearly as funny as it could have been -- or thinks it is -- but that's ultimately the problem with drop dead gorgeous . it would be easy enough to call drop dead gorgeous a second-rate gloss on michael ritchie's smile , or a wannabe waiting for guffman , or a half-hearted the positively true adventures of the alleged texas cheerleader-murdering mom ( also , not coincidentally , directed by michael ritchie ) . such criticisms don't do justice to the number of belly laughs this film provides . by the time the talent portion of the competition rolls around -- complete with dog impressions and monologues from soylent green -- drop dead gorgeous has provided enough humor to avoid being buried by comparative criticism . the thing about those comparitive criticisms is that you'd also be right . as scripted by lona williams -- herself a former minnesota beauty contest participant -- the film takes on too many targets to skewer any of them with maximum effectiveness . the peek at pageant contestants finds only the occasional insight , opting instead for broad caricatures and even broader gags . in fact , director michael patrick jann almost always opts for over-the-top , making the documentary set-up seem completely inappropriate . it's impossible to get caught up in drop dead gorgeous's verisimilitude when the action arbitrarily switches to rapid-fire , multiple-angle edits the likes of which i've never seen in any documentary . it's that aggravating refusal to look for genuine humor that makes drop dead gorgeous so frustrating . when it's funny , it's quite entertaining , but there's always the suspicion that it could have been hilarious with a bit of care . every joke made in drop dead gorgeous made me think of a joke missed ; every raucous chuckle called to mind an even better sly snicker . it's like a vaudeville act that will do anything to please the crowd , only it's a vaudeville act that thinks it's a wicked satire . you'll laugh , you'll sigh , you'll think about the better films covering similar subject matter . this may be one of the least satisfying entertaining films of recent years . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	screenplay : scott alexander and larry karaszewski . director : milos forman . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , brief nudity , adult themes ) running time : 118 minutes . in the first moments of man on the moon's splendidly inventive prologue , jim carrey says , " hello . . . i am andy . " there is no way to describe carrey's performance as andy kaufman in milos forman's bio-pic except to say that carrey inhabits kaufman . carrey's work may be the best , most effective extended impression in film history . the astonishing thing about man on the moon is how entertaining it is despite the fact that there's very little to it but carrey's extended impression . there's just the small matter of kaufman's insistence on pushing himself , his act and his audience farther than they've ever gone before . hard to take , perhaps , but impossible to ignore . it's also impossible to deny that man on the moon owes most of its entertainment value to kaufman himself , since the film's biggest laughts come from re-creations of kaufman's outrageous performances . kaufman responds with a reading in its entirety of _the great gatsby_ . watching carrey-as-kaufman reach for the edges without anything resembling a net is exhilarating . kaufman's routines still have the ability to inspire gasping laughter . the script by scott alexander and larry karaszewski casts a similar rosy glow over its subject as their scripts for ed wood and the people vs . larry flynt , making the film more of an homage to driven eccentricity than piercing character study . it may be true , as kaufman's girlfriend lynne ( courtney love ) says to him in one scene , that " there is no real you , " but that doesn't make the absence of insight any less disapppointing . while man on the moon's performance set pieces are dazzling , in a sense they never end . it's a portrait of an entire life lived as performance art , when you keep hoping for at least a glimpse behind the curtain . there are moments during the film's final half hour , when kaufman is coping with cancer -- and with the boy-who-cried-wolf repercussions as his friends and family doubt that he is really sick -- that we begin to see a self-aware andy . in one of the film's best moments , a trip to a philippine " psychic surgery " clinic becomes an ironic revelation that attempts to delude others can go too far . with just a few more moments like that , man on the moon might have been a classic film biography . maybe ultimately it's just a showpiece -- for kaufman's decades-ahead-of-his-time genius , and for carrey's dynamic rendering of that genius . maybe it's just a grand illusion without an easily-understood human being behind it . and maybe , in a story about the life of andy kaufman , that's perfectly appropriate . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	screenplay : carl v . dupre . director : adam rifkin . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , drug use , adult themes , nudity , violence , sexual situations ) running time : 95 minutes . by any objective standard -- assuming the term isn't meaningless as it applies to film criticism -- detroit rock city is pretty inexcusable stuff . the humor sticks fairly consistently to drugs , alcohol , and other undesirable teen behavior . the four principal characters have little or no personality , and aren't terribly sympathetic . it's a frantically paced effort , the infantile gags thrown around with a " quantity beats quality " mentality . a sensible adult human being clearly would be well-advised to hurl himself as far from this film as possible . there are far worse models for a film of this kind . detroit rock city is a dumb film , but it's a dumb film with such high energy and such a shamelessly low-brow sensibility that it feels like exactly the kind of film american pie wanted to be . teenage viewers may be content to snigger at the sex , drugs and rock 'n' roll gags , but the cartoonish delivery of those gags makes them more fun than they have any right to be . then again , i viewed detroit rock city through some fairly rose-tinted spectacles . though sporadically guffaw-inducing as a teen sex farce , it's far more appealing as a pure nostalgia trip for a 30-something ex-headbanger . the soundtrack , though heavy on the kiss tunes , also delivers blue oyster cult , cheap trick , thin lizzy and the aforementioned ramones , not to mention the occasional disco selection . the 70's icons -- 8-track tapes , stretch armstrong action figures and farrah fawcett posters among them -- set just the right atmosphere . it's filled with throwaway kiss references only a true fan could love , like trip's ironic , pre- " i was made for lovin' you " insistence that " kiss would never do some bull * * * * disco song . " in all the ways that count , you really did have to be there . it would be easy enough to begin and end with the idea that i was bored and/or repulsed by detroit rock city , annoyed by the projectile vomiting humor and the limp dialogue . i could rightly acknowledge my frustration with set-ups designed mostly to work teenage boys into a lather of lust or disgust . and i could note that while the performers work hard to be appealing , there's just not much appealing about the characters . when it comes right down to it , the four teens are just types , representations of everyone who wanted to go to a kiss concert so bad they could taste the flashpot smoke . . . guys like me , for instance . detroit rock city isn't a good film , but it's a film i couldn't resist . as hard as it is under the best of circumstances to watch a film objectively , it's even harder when you're watching the story of your life . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	while watching drop zone , i kept thinking about those ski films warren miller has been making for years . you know the ones--they're basically a bunch of impressive stunts and nice photography . well , drop zone looks like a skydiving version of one of those films , to which someone has attempted to add a plot . i emphasize the word " attempted , " and it's an extremely lackluster attempt at that . there is some great aerial footage in drop zone , but the story is a complete bore , and wesley snipes continues to bury himself in z-grade action films . we've already had one skydiving movie this year ( terminal velocity ) , and it wasn't a particularly good one . however , terminal velocity did have one very important thing going for it--no one involved seemed to be taking themselves at all seriously . it was light-hearted , and occasionally quite funny . drop zone , on the other hand , is best taken with meals as a mild sedative . it's not stretching the point to say that the plot between skydiving sequences in drop zone is somewhere on the order of the plot between sex scenes in your standard x-rated film . of course , as with that example , most viewers probably aren't coming to drop zone for riveting plot turns and crackling dialogue . the skydiving sequences are fantastic , perhaps the best i've ever seen . they are creatively shot , and include some impressive synchronized stunts . as long as drop zone is in the air , it is something quite exciting . then it hits ground again , and it burns in hard . after beginning as a rip-off of passenger 57 , drop zone ends like a rip-off of die hard , and a really bad one at that . gary busey delivers a performance that has stamps on it , practically sighing audibly as he wanders through a half-hearted version of his under siege psycho act . it is inexcusable in an action thriller to have a boring villain , and busey has not an ounce of charisma in this role . director john badham has made exciting films in the past , but even he appears to be slumming here . while the action in the air ( which was not his to shoot ) is great , the action on the ground is often ineptly staged and badly edited . what is genuinely depressing is watching the direction wesley snipes' career is taking . snipes is a fine actor with a tremendous range , but for a few years now he has appeared almost exclusively in bad action films . but snipes should really think about taking a few character parts that force producers to take him seriously as an actor , and for him to have a chance at the kind of roles samuel l . jackson and laurence fishburne are given a shot at . his performance in drop zone is thoroughly competent , but that's all it has to be . if he contines to appear in films like drop zone , he might as well take his career and jump out of a plane with it . without a parachute . 
1	howdy , pardner . saddle on up , and join me on a little ride . and , along the way , if you spy a theater showing this new woody harrelson/kiefer sutherland flick , the cowboy way , just keep goin' . it ain't worth the bother of stabling the horse . well , perhaps that's a little cruel , but this movie really isn't a whole lot better--or fundamentally a whole lot different--from eddie murphy's recent beverly hills cop iii blunder . both pictures try to mix action and comedy , and end up doing neither well . perhaps someone this summer will come out with a picture that's both exciting and funny , but it hasn't happened yet . the real enjoyment of any " fish out of water " motion picture comes from watching the lead characters react and adapt to the unusual setting . this is what made crocodile dundee and star trek iv : the voyage home such fun experiences . add violence and traditional bad guys , and you get the dundee sequel , which was , at best , a huge disappointment . the cowboy way not only has the guns and crooks , but long chase scenes as well . one of the chief problems with the cowboy way is that it spends so little effort detailing the characters' reactions to their circumstances and so much time attempting to craft a thriller . there are a lot more punches than punchlines , and the feeble comedy quickly takes a back seat to all sorts of action-based genre staples . the plot is exceptionally thin ( not to mention dumb ) , and obviously had to be padded out to feature film length . as a result , there are a number of pointless scenes that serve no purpose other than to eat up running time . woody harrelson doesn't really act his part . kiefer sutherland is more relaxed and natural , but his laid-back portrayal gives his co-star too much of the spotlight . dylan mcdermott plays the head villain with a typical bad guy attitude that's supposed to make the audience hate him . the only supporting performer worth mentioning is cara buono , who makes a convincing damsel in distress . too bad her role wasn't slightly more meaty . the cowboy way is just another in a long line of summer motion pictures that hopefully won't amount to much at the box office or elsewhere . as far as i'm concerned , these guys should ride off into the sunset and forget coming back for anything--especially a sequel . 
0	from the director ( jan de bont ) of last year's best action movie , speed , we have twister about teams of risk taking meteorologists chasing tornadoes . surprisingly , twister is one boring movie peppered with some nifty effects . it was so bad that had it not been for wanting to see all the special effects , i would have been ready to walk out . since the characters are not believable , you do not care if they come into harm's way , and hence the special effects , although technically impressive , are never frightening . as melissa ( jami gertz ) says in the show about another subject , " funny thing is . i'm not that upset . " i felt that way about the tornadoes in the film . twister is actually three movies for the cost of one . finally , there are the special tornado effects demonstrations by industrial light and magic . the film makes you think that a lot of people living in the tornado belt have tornado shelters . this is just not true . i saw one in my entire life , and that was at someone's house who was afraid the commies were going to drop the big one on him . also not considered in the film are the issue of warnings . so what . what were we going to do ? also , if you are warned all of the time , you soon learn to either ignore it or just worry a lot . all of this notwithstanding , i was able to suspend disbelief , but the film is so bad it didn't help . they drive a bunch of beat-up vehicles that look like they will fall apart at any moment . the original script by michael crichton is ridiculous . he should stick to books . beside the trite lines , the movie telegraphs every punch for some reason . aren't they supposed to be trying to scare us ? consider just one example . for some reason the tornado chasers decide to stop at a drive-in movie to get a cup of coffee while the drive-in is playing the horror classic the shining . what do you think will happen ? the setup is so contrived . look , the special effects are just that , special in this movie . they are technically brilliant , but without a good script and characters that come alive , after a while i found the effects repetitious and boring . technically brilliant certainly , but stuck in a lifeless movie . other than the technically impressive special effects , i liked seeing hunt and paxton . hunt is so smart , tough , and sensual all at once . paxton is a great minor actor i have enjoyed for a long time . as much as i was glad to see them again , i never found their characters in the movie believable . the show is funny in parts as when a large cow keeps flying by them as in the wizard of oz . finally , kudos for the nice computer graphics . realistic without being overdone . twister runs 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex , no nudity , almost no bad language and no violence other than the natural violence caused by tornadoes . the shots of the tornadoes trivializes the human suffering and dwells mostly with flying objects and property damage . the film would be fine for any kid over say 8 . there is no show ; there are only special effects , and these are not enough for me to recommend this disappointing film . to be fair , i should point out that my wife liked the film . the large audience where i saw it was pretty subdued , so i do not know how much most people will like it . i give the film * 1/2 , but only for the special effects . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 10 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the others , brilliantly written and directed by alejandro amen ? bar , is the quietest movie of the year , with characters who rarely talk much above a whisper and with background sounds that are only a couple of decibels higher than dead silence . but don't worry , you won't miss anything since you'll be on the edge of your seat throughout the most spell-binding mystery since the sixth sense . for the longest time , amen ? bar keeps us unsure not only as to what actually is happening but also as to what kind of mystery it is . perhaps it's a ghost story . but it could be a psychological drama . then again , it might be something else entirely . as you watch it , don't get cocky . even if you think you have figured it out , you may be wrong in more ways than one . as one character remarks prophetically , " there are going to be some big surprises . " the central character in this fascinating thriller is nicole kidman in a great and creepily intensive performance . this is reminiscent of the way that haley joel osment managed to outdo bruce willis in the sixth sense . the events that unfold completely shake her confidence . and that is only the setup for this intriguing story . that's all i am going to tell you , which isn't much . this much i can guarantee , as you keep trying to guess where the story is headed , you will not be disappointed when it gets there . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements and frightening moments and would be fine for kids around 12 and up , depending entirely on how well they can handle fear of the unknown . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	it asks the question , how would you react in finding out that your world is not real ? this is a theme a number of '90s sci-fi films have already done . it seems as if the movies are running out of ideas for this world and need the after-life for more material . supposedly , i am being prepared for a film that will make me think . instead , what i got was a sci-fi film that left me somewhat confused by its being both a murder mystery and a time travel sci-fi'er . it was very difficult to keep track of what was going on , as the film moved back and forth between two different time frames . it was also difficult for me to grok what is meant by the creation of parallel dimensions and how it is possible for our world to be a copy of another . what made it even more difficult , was that the story line was built around the murder case and not around the more interesting ideas generated by time travel . yet , it was this virtual reality computerized world that left me dazzled with its engrossing ideas . though the film tried , it simply couldn't create too much depth for its characters . they remained tied to the sci-fi part of the story . they performed their task well , but their characters couldn't expand because of the limitations they were presented with . they just didn't have too much sparkle to them . even the romance between the leads was jejune . this proved to be a fatal flaw in the film . these creations have feelings and emotions just like people ; but they don't know they're not real . it is too dangerous . yes . the 13th floor , directed by josef rusnak from a screenplay he wrote with ravel centeno-rodriguez can be valued for its re-creation of a 1937 los angeles of fancy bars , booming oil wells , and a magnificent wilshire boulevard setting . all this ostentation taking place in the middle of our great depression . it was fun to see this opulent depiction of a town that was to only grow more opulent and depressed in the future . in this most original story , it seems hannon has made one too many simulations himself and now wants to abort this project . i got mixed messages from this film . i thought it was an interesting concept , that somehow didn't seem as exciting as it should be on the first viewing . i will reserve final judgment on it , since i think it could look better upon seeing it again . as for the flatness of the characters , that i'm afraid won't change . but i must say , i thought the actors did a really fine job considering the limitations placed on them by the script . . . also , the filmmakers did a good job with their use of costume and set designs . i wanted to like this film more than i actually did , but i couldn't fully enjoy it , for the simple reason that too much of the film was taken up by the uninteresting murder case . 
0	a made for tv movie that looks and feels like a made for tv movie ( it was stale ) . since i wasn't held in suspense , i instead turned my attention on guessing who did it , using my conditioned experiences from watching such tv shows , therefore i knew it wouldn't be the most obvious one . i did guess who it was about half way through on a hunch , since the plot didn't leave much in clues . i hate to be a killjoy , but that , unfortunately , was the only enjoyment i got out of the film . set in a city hospital , the film pays homage to soap operas like general hospital , as in numerous scenes a patient is seen watching the unnamed soap opera , as is the bartender where the doctors hangout , rosie ( ann wedgeworth ) . it made for a forgettable film , one that was probably intended as a pilot for a possible tv series . the b-film left a warm spot in my heart , as it cured my insomnia without me using a sleeping pill and having to worry about side effects . 
2	during the decade of the 1990s , zhang yimou , one of the most internationally acclaimed of all the so-called " fifth generation " chinese film makers , has made a series of visually striking , narratively compelling pictures , including raise the red lantern and to live . shanghai triad , zhang's latest offering , delves deeply into the workings of shanghai's gangland during the 1930s . reminiscent of prohibition-era chicago -- and therefore depicting the universality of organized crime - - shanghai triad is a fascinating , though imperfect , look at the lure and power of greed to corrupt and destroy . in fact , there are several effective first person camera shots where we see events unfold as if from shuisheng's perspective . like those of us watching the film , shuisheng has no knowledge about what it means to live in tang's circle , and his education is ours . there is plenty of action , but , like zhang's previous films , the primary focus is on relationships and internal conflicts . the interaction between shuisheng , bijou , and tang forms the central dynamic , and those three characters represent this movie's true " shanghai triad . " unfortunately , due in part to the script and in part to a flat performance by young actor wang xiaoxiao , shuisheng comes across as bland . even though he's in nearly every scene , we're rarely sure what he's thinking or how he feels about those who control his life . there are hints of sexual curiosity , growing faithfulness , and building horror , but wang does a poor job conveying these elements . conversely , the always-luminescent gong li is at the height of her ability in shanghai triad , almost making up for what's lacking in her young co-star . her bijou is a marvel of subtlety and complexity . not only is gong an amazing actress , but she has an undeniable screen presence as well . bijou may be her most sultry role to date , as she sashays her way across the screen , purring the words to the song " pretending " , her character's anthem . while the relationship between bijou and shuisheng is left disappointingly underdeveloped , the actress' performance makes it easier to overlook this defect . with its underworld violence and straightforward narrative , shanghai triad may be zhang's most accessible film to date . it is not , however , his best work , having neither the epic scope of to live nor the quiet emotional power of raise the red lantern . yet there is still much to like about shanghai triad , not the least of which is the production's gorgeous look ( credit the director and his cinematographer , li xiao ) . shanghai triad overflows with memorable imagery and atmosphere . and , as this film verifies , a weak entry by zhang is often far more engrossing than a strong entry by many other directors . 
0	somewhere along the line , the makers of romantic comedies stopped caring about whether their lead characters had any business being together . perhaps in response to the complex ritual late-20th-century courtship has become , audiences began to embrace film romances which had as much to do with sorcery as chemistry -- sleepless in seattle , four weddings and a funeral -- and film-makers have been only too happy to provide more of the same . the fairy tale , a perfectly enjoyable expression of our dreams , is no longer simply a supplement to realistic love in the movies ; it practically has replaced it entirely . fools rush in is the next logical step in the transformation of screen romance into a celebration of fate . perhaps more than the audience can withstand , as well . fools rush in scripter katherine reback doesn't provide one really interesting conflict between alex and isabel -- she provides a dozen moderately diverting conflicts , with characters who are on screen barely long enough for you to remember their names . there is so much quarreling and scowling and meddling and fretting going on from so many different directions that you might find yourself wondering if you have forgotten how perfect they are supposed to be for each other . don't worry , you haven't forgotten . all evidence suggests that the only thing right in the relationship between alex and isabel is really great sex , and i am not discounting the value of really great sex when i say that it's not nearly enough . fools rush in belongs to that class of romantic comedies which demands that you accept the central pairing as celestially foretold , and curse you for a fuddy-duddy with no sense of romance if you object , as john cleese once did in a classic " cheers " episode , that the only thing opposites attract is divorce . what makes fools rush in all the more frustrating is that there are plenty of moments when it is tremendously entertaining . you don't need to be a fan of " friends " to appreciate perry , who can fire darts of sarcasm and do reaction takes with the best of them . he can be both funny and warm , as he is in an appealing sequence at a fuentes family gathering , and it is easy to feel sympathetic towards alex despite his near-sighted careerism . salma hayek is also quite good , conveying conflicted emotions and frustration , and there is certainly heat between perry and hayek ( although , let's face it , hayek could generate heat in a room full of asbestos ) . but fools rush in needs more than heat . it needs a heart , a sense of connection which comes from friendship as much as fantasy . in a film which throws so many problems and situations at the screen that nothing sticks together , it is ironic that the only thing which does stick together -- alex and isabel -- probably shouldn't . 
1	it was crisply directed and well acted , and its quick pace fitted nicely into the stylish way this b & w film was presented . 
2	richard linklater , the creator of slackers and dazed and confused , has succeeded where many before him have failed--in fashioning a modern-day romance that is both original and enthralling . before sunrise is nothing short of movie magic , and the kind of film that deserves to be remembered one long year from now when 1996's oscar nominations are handed out . even the best romantic comedy/dramas tend to be formula-driven , frequently relying more upon actor chemistry than plot . surprises are about as foreign to this genre as a pacifist hero is to a shoot-'em-up . somewhere along the way , a storyteller originated the basic love story structure . film makers have religiously followed this roadmap , rarely taking more than an occasional minor detour . frankly , this is not the sort of film one usually expects to find in multiplexes . in fact , if it weren't in english , it might be possible to mistake this for the work of someone like eric rohmer . the plentiful and varied dialogue has a richness that few screenplays manage to capture . most of before sunrise is talking . the characters touch on subjects ranging from language and reincarnation to sexuality and cable access shows . thus begins an unforgettable screen romance . one of the first things to notice about before sunrise is how completely natural it all seems . the rapport between jesse and celine is so lacking in artifice that at times the viewer feels like a voyeur . we are privy to everything , including the sort of " unimportant " dialogue that most films shy away from . here , its inclusion is just one of many fresh elements . for this film to work , they have a threefold task : embrace their characters , attract each other , and connect with the audience . needless to say , all are accomplished flawlessly . from the first stolen glance , there's never any question about their chemistry , and it takes no more time for the audience to be enraptured by jesse and celine than it does for them to fall for each other . it magnifies the little things , paying scrupulous attention to the subtleties and mannerisms of body language . this film is an amalgamation of such memorable scenes , yet , as they saying goes , the whole is more than a sum of its parts . questions about fate and the transitory nature of relationships are raised , then left open for the audience to ponder . there are moments of unforced humor , and times of bittersweet poignancy . before sunrise speaks as much to the mind as to the heart , and much of what it says is likely to strike a responsive chord--a rare and special accomplishment for any motion picture . 
2	the mystery and allure of hollywood in the '50s . paparazzi waiting to get that one breakthrough picture . these are just some of the elements that make curtis hanson's l . a . confidential one of the most exhilarating noir thrillers to reach the screen in recent memory . with a script that pays homage to the films of the '40s and '50s and may remind some viewers of the likes of chinatown , l . a . confidential proves that every period piece thriller doesn't have to go the way of mulholland falls . it's 1953 , and the city of angels is in the grip of an unprecedented wave of violence . the difference between l . a . confidential and numerous other , more routine films of the genre begins with the script . smart , insightful , and consistently engaging , hanson and brian helgeland's faithful adaptation of james ellroy's novel is a real treat for anyone who views film as a medium for both art and entertainment . the movie is filled with small twists and turns , but not so many that the plot becomes difficult to swallow or to follow . the subplots =96 and there are several= =96 are as well-developed as the main story , and the supporting characters= are presented as more than mere colorful misfits decorating the background . atmosphere is another of l . a . confidential's strengths . this is technicolor noir =96 a film made in color that has black-and-white sensibilities . like devil in a blue dress , this movie proves that multi-hued film stock does not automatically hamstring such a production . and , while the los angeles of l . a . confidential may not accurately reflect the real city during the '50s , it nevertheless represents what we expect hollywood to have been like , from the glitzy buildings to the cool-but-beautiful femme fatales and the sure-handed , silent men . the three leads give strong performances . it's interesting to note that two of the three main actors in this distinctly american tale are australian . it's worth noting that both actors have perfected their american accents to the point where it's virtually impossible to detect a down under twang . it takes l . a . confidential nearly two and one-half hours to spin its tale , but the time passes remarkably quickly . there's hardly a wasted moment in the entire movie , and director hanson ( whose previous credits include the hand that rocks the cradle and the river wild ) maintains tight control of every scene . lately , it seems that film noir has become the province of independent productions . as a result , it's refreshing to see a big-budget , studio effort of this sort that does nearly everything right . l . a . confidential is likely to be one of the best offerings of the early autumn . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
1	its pulse is taken out of the shock stories that appear daily in the newspapers . sitko's classical noir line to him is , " you going legitimate is like a vulture turning vegetarian . " the once typical crime story from hollywood has now taken a more forlorn look at how people really are . fake niceties are not allowed in this highly charged atmospheric b&w film . sitko has no vices such as the bottle , womanizing , and gambling . he's about as clean-cut as a noir protagonist gets in these sort of films . the only thing that keeps him noir , is his cynicism and willingness to do anything to get what he wants . the ones who imbue the film with its usual noir credentials are the heavies : burr , whose only thought about being involved with murder was , " i should have stuck to blackmail and petty larceny . " 
2	with the new influx of play-to-film adaptations , the market is absorbing no less than six shakespeare films in thirteen months . however , while this picture doesn't have quite the same level of style or energy evident in much ado about nothing , solid performances and a lucid interpretation keep it afloat . and , because cuts have been made sparingly , this is one of the most faithful ( at least as far as completeness is concerned ) of the recent shakespeare movies . anyone going into a british adaptation of shakespeare expecting to see nathan lane cavorting around in drag is in for a rude surprise . that being said , however , at least twelfth night hasn't suffered from cinematic overexposure . none of the other filmed versions of this play are especially well-known . twelfth night opens with a scene alluded to , but never presented in the original text . by dressing viola as a man , shakespeare establishes an opportunity to explore through one character the different manners in which men and women approach the same situation , especially if it involves love . with twelfth night , as with any of the bard's comedies , there's always a question of how well the humor will translate to a modern audience . fortunately , in large part due to a wonderful comic turn by nigel hawthorne , the film offers plenty to laugh at . the finale , where all the mistaken identities are unraveled , is an example of how perfect timing can accentuate comedy . bonham carter , who is well-suited to comedy , sparkles , as does imogen stubbs ( sense and sensibility ) . the real standout , however , is hawthorne , whose version of malvolio can alternately provoke laughter and tug at the heart strings . shakespeare aficionados will probably be pleased that so much of the written word has made it to the screen , but the two-plus hour running length is a bit burdensome . branagh's much ado about nothing can be criticized in many areas , but one of its great strengths is pacing -- a trait not shared by twelfth night , whose best comic moments all occur past the half-way point . nevertheless , the slow spots are worth sitting through , because , as a whole , this is solid entertainment . -- ingmar bergman 
1	imagine that you're a villain in a john hughes film . what do you do ? a good bet might be to find someplace safe and secure to hide , especially if you catch sight of any kids under the age of twelve . like someone unwilling to venture down an untrodden road , hughes has yet again come back to the worn-out home alone concept , this time substituting a nine-month old toddler for wisecracking macaulay culkin . in this cased , however , the baby's smiles and chuckles are more endearing than culkin's one-liners . there isn't a scintilla of intellectual humor in the whole movie , and the repeated bashings and burnings received by the hapless villains get tiring after the first hour . there also seem to be an inordinate number of jokes dealing with the crushing , mutilation , or incineration of male reproductive organs . young children will also laugh at this film , but there's a question about whether the content is suitable . with home alone , most of the damage done to the thugs was relatively minor , at least compared to what happens in baby's day out . this time around , the cartoon mentality is taken to its wiley coyote absolute , with the stooges constantly surviving crippling or should-be-fatal accidents . somehow , it's more disturbing than funny when it happens to reel people , as opposed to animated creatures . other than the slapstick , there's little to recommend this movie . a subplot involving how a status-obsessed mother comes to grips with her missing child is horribly misplaced , and these strains of melodrama are cloying . whenever lara flynn boyle appears on screen , it's the fervent wish of nearly every member of the audience that the movie turn its attention back to the baby . baby bink is cute , but that's what little kids are supposed to be , and most of the impressive baby stunts result from ilm's work , not the incredible athletic ability of the worton boys . before culkin , hughes occasionally came up with something entertaining . doubtless , if baby's day out makes money , there will be more of this fare to come . and , with the protagonists getting younger with each new picture , one wonders if the next release of this sort might end up being called adventures in the womb . 
0	in kiss of the dragon , jet li could be called a lean , mean , fighting machine were it not for his monk-like stoicism . given his complete absence of emotion , a more apt description would be to call him a lean , fighting cipher . but , if it's merely violent action you crave , then chris nahon's kiss of the dragon will not disappoint you , as the director seems to be shooting for a dps ( deaths per scene ) rate somewhere in the single digits . " i'm stupid , but i'm not that stupid , " fonda's character says at one point . well , fonda signed up to do this bit of acting slumming , which was pretty stupid , especially after her monkeybone bomb . then again , maybe they didn't want to constrain the action sequences by having to adhere to some arbitrary storyline . kiss of the dragon runs a long 1 : 38 . it is rated r for strong violence , language , some sexuality and drug content and would be acceptable for older teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * * , praising the high level of action and complaining about the lack of a plot . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	patience . in this jerry bruckheimer era of rock 'em , sock 'em filmmaking , audiences have little patience . worse , when they do , the films frequently don't deliver the rewards promised by their slow approach , frustrating audiences and making them more likely to go for quick gratification the next time . there's nothing like watching bruce willis save the world , or some large part of it , to pump up your adrenaline . in a complete opposite to the in-your-face action style of filmmaking , ang lee's career has been devoted to the human dimension . from his comedic eat drink man woman to his intimate sense and sensibility to his biting the ice storm , his pictures have cut through the gloss to deliver fascinating , realistic character studies . those going expecting a traditional war picture will be sorely disappointed . if that's the film you want , then lee is not the director to make it . ride with the devil moves with its own methodical rhythms and with most of its story told in quiet moments of anguish as the bushwhackers hide between fights . battle scenes there are , but they are few and far between and rarely take center stage . lee sets this in a wonderfully pastoral setting , full of chirping crickets , clucking hens and mooing cows . it was a time when not much of anything lasted . the letters are full of resignation to the fact that the recipient or the sender or both may be dead before the letter is delivered . the beauty of lee's picture is that he relates their story with compassion but without schmaltz . enlightening , fascinating and tender , it is the movie for those who want to get behind the lines and the action and get to know the individuals drawn into such a hellacious situation . it is rated r for some graphic war violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
1	a solid noir melodrama from vincent sherman , who takes a standard story and dresses it up with moving characterizations and beautifully expressionistic b&w photography from cinematographer james wong howe . the director took a songwriter paul webster's short magazine story called " the man who died twice " and improved the story by rounding out the characters to give them both strong and weak points , so that they would not be one-note characters as was the case in the original story . the movie posters said , 'if you were nora prentiss , would you keep your mouth shut ? ' the other famous quote from this film is 'a mouth like hers is just for kissing . . . not for telling ! ' the film proved to be popular with the public , especially with the women in the audience , and it turned out to be a big hit for ann sheridan . the glossy story might not be much on paper , but the telling of it was superb , showing how trapped the main characters became because of their lie . 
1	but when he is smaller , he is adorable and quite manageable . buddy is a coming of age picture about a gorilla . most surprising of all is that a picture filled with chimpanzees and a baby gorilla manages to avoid most of the slapstick cliches one would expect . if you have a natural aversion to saccharine chimps , you might find these amazingly delightful and expressive . and anyone would love the gorilla . " of course this place probably already is the nut house . " the four chimps are treated completely like children . well , as impeccable as apes can have . buddy possesses tremendous charm , most of all when he is a baby even if that is the least convincing of the special effects . good question and a precursor to the rest of the story . throughout most of buddy , the story is a wonderful and magical adventure into the animal kingdom , but parents with impressionable children must be forewarned that the movie turns tragically sad and quite frightening before it ultimately ends on an upbeat note . it is precisely because the film was able to morph into a more serious film that hooked me . before that it was little more than light hearted pabulum . once things turned bad , i realized how much i had come to love buddy . it is rated pg for some frightening scenes of an angry gorilla . my son jeffrey , age 8 , liked the movie , but was very scared in a few of the scenes . the rest of the kids in the audience seemed to handle it pretty well , but again , i'd be careful . jeffrey's favorite parts of the movie were the adorable " baby buddy and the kittens . " because of the effectiveness of the ending , i am able to recommend the picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 6 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	starring : madeleine stowe , mary stuart masterson , drew barrymore , andie macdowell director : jonathan kaplan producers : albert s . ruddy , andre e . morgan , and charles finch screenplay : ken friedman and yolande finch music : jerry goldsmith released by twentieth-century fox you know you have arrived by the scenery--the dusty trails and horse- drawn carriages , the old-time saloons with their lively whores , and the picturesque backdrops that bring to mind colorado as it once was . you ask . why , directly in the midst of a genre picture , where the likes of john wayne , mario van peebles , and clint eastwood have ventured . it has the dirt-packed streets and the ramshackle buildings , although there aren't too many tumbleweeds to be seen . along the way , there are a few meaningless and dull action sequences , including a scene where the wagon gets away from the girls and has to be corralled by lilly . actually , the main characters really aren't " bad girls . " they're just misunderstood , but i suppose the title misunderstood girls lacks panache . all four basically have hearts of gold , and in case we miss this point when it is first none-too-subtly pointed out , we are repeatedly bludgeoned by this simple truth . odd that their hair remained clean and manageable , but you have to draw the line somewhere . i mean , how much realism can you expect ? this isn't unforgiven , after all . along the way , we meet a number of male characters , none of whom are any more interesting than the females . how about the acting in bad girls ? well , the title pretty much says it all . some of the people in this movie have done good work before . you'd never know it by watching this . and the dialogue . . . ouch ! a few examples : " we sold our bodies . [a deeply philosophical question comparing running a mill to being a prostitute . ] " if your laws don't include me , well then , they don't apply to me either . " " all i ever got was a couple of fancy dresses and a broken heart . " [better , i suppose , than a couple of fancy dresses and a broken neck . ] in defense of this film , i have the following to say : actually , there are a few funny moments . i think i laughed more than during major league 2 ( which isn't saying much ) . unfortunately , bad girls isn't supposed to be a comedy , and most of the most amusing sequences are intended to be serious . never trust a western where the scenery continually upstages the actors . at least director jonathan kaplan had the good sense to employ a competent cinematographer . jerry goldsmith's score , on the other hand , is a bit . . . shall we say . . . melodramatic . that way , this movie would have been only 8 minutes long . come to think of it , though , even at that length , it would have seemed padded . 
1	some movies are not what they seem to be . although on the surface it is a mystery about the search for a lost feline , in reality , it has only marginal sympathy for the missing animal . klapisch's storytelling style borrows heavily from the great eric rohmer , whose last picture released in the united states was the beautiful , episodic rendezvous in paris . klapisch has mastered the form of a rohmer film , but lacks rohmer's gift for the narrative . klapisch's plot has the same wide variety of characters , but rohmer's are more compelling . garance clavel plays chloe with such big , soulful eyes that it is hard to see how anyone would turn her down . ( in a film nominally about cats there are several such cruel references to them . ) " men have let me down , but animals , never . the scene is reminiscent of the one in which the cat is trailed in that darn cat . if , like i , you are able to guess the resolution of the missing cat mystery , it will not detract from the story . the movie's interest lies strictly in the people chloe meets . rohmer could have found her some more interesting ones , but the ones she does run into possess a certain charm . it is rated r for profanity and an explicit sexual scene . the picture would be fine for mature teenagers . i give this delicate film thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	plunkett & macleane , a lavish costume drama set in london in 1748 , has it all : huge , powdered wigs , men with lipstick , rock music , fast edits , squalor and decadence . in short it's the perfect movie for those people who think the main problem with the cinema today is that it lacks an mtv video gloss . first-time film director jake scott has an extensive resume of -- surprise ! -- rock videos . plunkett & macleane is a hyperactive movie that is a treat for the eyes but offers little for the mind . billed as a comedy , it doesn't contain a single funny scene with the possible exception of a remark about halitosis . when someone uses bad breath as an insult and that elicits a film's only laugh , you know the movie is in trouble . did i mention the crazy costumes ? this life of crime has predictable twists and turns , right down to the ending , which is lifted out of a hundred similar movies . liv tyler , as the story's love interest , lady rebecca , continues in her tradition of delivering lifeless performances to characters that are already badly underwritten . the best supporting character is played by alan cumming , as lord rochester , a bisexual dandy who sports the show's most outlandish wardrobes , with his large purple hat and accompanying crimson and lavender jacket being perhaps the most wonderfully silly . visually attractive like velvet goldmine , the movie suffers the same problem . it's a good-looking picture , but it's never more than just a good-looking picture . the characters are poorly drawn , the script is doa and the director only knows how to create flash . boiled down to its three-minute rock video essence , it might prove diverting . at a full-movie length , it tests the viewer's stamina . plunkett & macleane runs 1 : 33 . it is rated r for some strong violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	once were warriors , a new zealand export , is centered upon the touchy yet timely topic of domestic violence . it is not , however , merely another " domestic violence motion picture . " with its complex cultural backdrop and its stark view of this societal cancer , once were warriors attains a level where it is equally painful and potent . the critical themes of this movie are universal , even though there is a great deal of background that only a new zealander ( or a student of that country's history ) can appreciate . nevertheless , though many elements of the subtext may be lost to outside viewers , the key issue--the brutal cycle of violence and denial within a family--is brought to the fore in a manner that necessitates no special awareness . equality is not a basic tenant of the maori lifestyle , at least as depicted in this film . they gripe at each other , but all seems pretty tranquil , and there are moments of genuine affection . many films have depicted wife-beatings . few have been as graphic and difficult to watch . the acting throughout once were warriors is uniformly strong , with leading and supporting actors turning in performances that range from credible to electric . the musical score , by murray mcnabb , is evocative , and a perfect match for the drab , dreary colors suffusing stuart dryburgh's camerawork . great pains have been taken to emphasize that everyone in this film is trapped by one thing or another--if not their circumstances , then their personality . once were warriors works , to some degree , on three levels : the visceral , the emotional , and the intellectual , and it is the amalgamation of these that makes this a memorable film . 
1	improbably , rusty cundieff's first attempt at a romantic comedy , =20 called sprung . with this , his third directorial effort , cundieff=20 reinforces an impression that he has given viewers in his two previous=20 movies ( fear of a black hat , tales from the hood ) : he knows how to make=20 audiences laugh but is unwilling to try something truly ambitious . it's then that cundieff rather abruptly alters his film's=20 direction . suddenly , sprung shifts gears and becomes an unexpectedly=20 sweet romantic comedy . stereotypes start to give way to real ( if only=20 partially-developed ) characters . the brashness and least common=20 denominator humor are replaced by kisses , ballroom dancing , and romantic=20 music . =20 predictably , in the process , those two discover just how fine a line it=20 is between love and hate . it's impossible to deny that parts of sprung are very funny , but=20 the jokes really don't amount to much . likewise , the formulaic=20 romances , developed in parallel , are a little flat ( clyde and adina's=20 moreso than montel and brandy's ) . cundieff seems to believe that if he=20 puts together two attractive couples with decent chemistry that we'll=20 readily accept all of the clich=e9s that litter the road to the obvious=20 conclusion . there aren't any of those special , little " character=20 moments " that elevate many similarly unoriginal romances , primarily=20 because sprung has to juggle two relationships . each leeches time from=20 the other , and , as a result , neither gets the development it deserves . =20 the actors , who are all appealing , arguably do better jobs than the=20 material warrants . cundieff and campbell are effective as the low-key=20 couple , even though they're saddled with a falling-in-love music montage=20 at the heart of their romance . clarence williams iii , sherman hemsley , and a few other familiar=20 faces dot the casting landscape with amusing cameos . this is , of course , exactly what cundieff=20 has done , and it's easy to hear the director speaking through his=20 character's mouth . ultimately , sprung is probably a little too uneven=20 and familiar to be worth taking a trip to a movie theater for , but it is=20 solid enough to provide an evening's diversion once it makes its way to=20 your neighborhood video store . 
2	starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan producers : camelia freiberg and atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan cinematography : paul sarossy music : mychael danna released by miramax films it's difficult to explain the full range of emotional impact caused by exotica . the latest offering from canadian film maker atom egoyan ( family viewing , the adjuster ) is as beguiling as it is baffling . not until the final scene does everything finally snap into focus , and when it does , the revelations have all the sudden , stark clarity of a vast nightscape illuminated by a flash of lightning . whole perspectives change . egoyan has taken a seemingly-simple story and woven it into a near-masterpiece , creating images and an atmosphere that establish the perfect backdrop for a tale of loss , grief , and eroticism . the exotica is a strip club in toronto , where men go to watch , but not touch , a variety of unclothed women who strut their stuff to the pulsing sounds of a rich and varied soundtrack . to christina , we're not aware of all the layers inherent in his words . only in retrospect do we ultimately understand . but for thomas , filling that aching void of the soul involves paying a hefty material price . on the surface , exotica might seem to be about sex and lust . nothing could be further from the truth . those elements are a slick sheen of polish over the real core . while it's true that strip joints normally reek of excess , egoyan's story seeks a more fundamental emotional level . this film is driven by the grief and isolation of the characters . the interpersonal connections made in exotica are often obscure , and the reasons underlying otherwise-inexplicable actions are complex . the effects are too devastating , so he huddles behind a curtain of illusion spun by christina , trying to reduce his crushing despair to something more bearable . it's easy to mistake francis for a dirty-minded middle-aged voyeur until you begin to understand what exotica is saying . and it's not until the final credits roll that the last word of that litany is spoken . very little about this picture is either predictable or conventional . as far as the major actors are concerned , there isn't a weak performance . comparisons to mike leigh's naked and the uncompromising work of ken loach are entirely appropriate . as movies go , this one is painful--painful because it exposes so much truth . it is a " response " film that demands something more active than detached observation . when any motion picture succeeds at that , it deserves recognition as nothing less than one of the year's most profound cinematic experiences . 
1	how thick do you like your intrigue ? how much ambiguity can you stand ? when you think of conspiratorial government agencies , do you reject the easy targets like the cia and focus instead on more sinister ones like fema ? and finally , how successful are you at suspending disbelief for two solid hours ? welcome to the x files - the movie version . since reviews of this movie demand that the critic state his or her relative familiarity with the television series upon which the movie is based , let me confess up-front that i have seen only one episode . in the museum of radio and television in new york - a must-see attraction - i watched an early episode as a research project before seeing the movie . the television show was more cerebral and less dependent on gore and special effects than the film , but they were both confusingly complex by design . it eventually goes off so that director rob bowman can make the film into a big budget action picture as required for a summer release . and why was the skyscraper completely demolished ? why these bodies were not disposed of in a thousand easier ways is one of many illogical questions that a normal viewer , as opposed to a die-hard fan , might want to ask . " i have a hunch that whatever you find can't be categorized or easily referenced , " mulder says more than once to his sidekick , scully . actually , the entire story fits under those rubrics . although the plot may be impenetrable for non-fans , the movie from beginning to end is absolutely fascinating even if not very often interesting . the labyrinthine plot got so outlandish at times that our audience started laughing at it . ( " you told me you had the answers , " complains an angry mulder . " i don't have them all , " replies dr . kurtzweil . periodically , spooky creatures turn up to spice things up , and the movie becomes aliens-lite . among the many joys of the film is that we are able to deduce that hertz must have a rent-a-tractor outlet in antarctica . you can check one out without a reservation and go joy riding alone across the vast frozen landscape . and when you get tired of driving , you can try your hand at spelunking . at the end of the credits , we learn that the story was all fiction . or so they want us to believe . it is rated pg-13 for violence and gore and would be fine for kids 11 and up . 
1	screenplay : michael seitzman . director : mark piznarski . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes , sexual situations ) running time : 97 minutes . mark piznarski's here on earth does not take place here on earth . welcome to the world of here on earth : planet melodrama . i'm not about to dismiss melodrama out of hand ; if daytime drama , professional wrestling and romance novels are any indication , people still love conflicts writ large and lacking in moral shadings . even titanic , for all its spectacle , was essentially melodrama . but melodrama also has its own rules , and here on earth consistently violates them . there are , of course , impediments to the kelley/samantha coupling in michael seitzman's script . and there's a twist of medical tragedy in store down the line . the two leads therefore proceed to play their embarrassingly scripted courtship for just the hollywood concoction that it is . their relationship doesn't resemble anything you would ever see between two actual human 18-year-olds , but that's fine . when sam silences kelley's fumbled attempt at an apology with an all-forgiving finger to the lips , you know you've been spending time in a place where romanticism trumps reality . still , there are little things that never feel right about this world . in fact , you'd almost root for jasper to win out , if not for the fact that you may spend most of the film wanting desperately to reach through the screen to comb his hair . there's no moment of melodramatic satisfaction from seeing the bad guy get a good telling-off . for a melodrama , here on earth seems awfully reluctant even to have a bad guy . i'm not sure whether i could have embraced even a fully melodramatic here on earth . even in its basic premise , it's too awkward a melding of adult tear-jerker and doe-eyed teen appeal romance . still , there's no question that melodrama can work when those involved are unashamed about the fact that they're creating melodrama . that's why people cheer and boo at wrestling matches ; it's why people spend 20 years following their favorite soap operas . that should have been why the bonding of kelley and sam across opposite sides of the tracks would provide an emotionally cathartic experience . instead , it's a half-hearted effort in a genre where heart is all that matters . the makers of here on earth have made a visit to planet melodrama . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	white is a bitter sweet tragedy from polish director krzysztof kieslowski . the movie is in french and polish with english subtitles . the script written by krzysztof kieslowski and krzysztof piesiewicz has a few nice twists that are kind of hard to guess . the movie takes place mainly in poland . delpy's acting consists of standing around and looking beautiful . don't get me wrong she does a super job at that , but you do not need an actress to stand up and look terrific - they could have hired a fashion model . the movie's feel is that of a short story made into a movie . the only real complaint i have , other than there is not much substance , is that i found the ending too abrupt . perhaps red will be better ; i never got to see blue . the movie is rated r for reasons i can not figure out . it is clearly a pg-13 show . it runs 1 : 32 and has the real potential for putting you to sleep in parts . i give the movie * 1/2 for the acting of the male lead and some fun plot twists , but i can not recommend to anyone . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	woody allen attempts to answer the question in his latest cinematic endeavor , manhattan murder mystery . in a sense , that's the mystery of the film , and woody allen brings across the solution with his characteristic mix of madcap comedy and on-target realism . in 1979 , director allen made manhattan , a movie that many critics and fans consider to be his greatest effort . ms . keaton is a breezy , energetic personality , and it's hard to imagine anyone else doing nearly as much with the character of carol ( even though this part was originally conceived with farrow in mind , and wasn't re-written following the cast change ) . one need only look at the allen/keaton and allen/farrow collaborations to determine which pairing worked better , and murder mystery merely reinforces this conclusion . some claim that to have seen one woody allen picture is to have seen them all . to say that not only vastly oversimplifies things , but does a great injustice to the individuality of each of allen's projects . sure , there are a number of themes that he returns to like a comfortable chair , and the character he plays rarely varies from a basic neurotic type ( no one would accuse allen of having great range as an actor ) , but each of his films - even those that fail ( take shadows and fog , for instance ) - offers something fresh and unique . husbands and wives , allen's previous picture , is a drama with humorous elements . manhattan murder mystery is closer to a straightforward comedy , providing more laughs than anything allen has done in a long while ( he claims to have " indulged " himself with this movie ) . combined with numerous one-liners , almost all of which work , are several instances of well-timed and well-executed physical humor . allen pushes all the buttons from wit to slapstick , and rarely comes up empty . if there's a serious side to murder mystery , it's only to be expected . after all , the director has a reputation to maintain , and the movie's principal subject - death - isn't usually a laugh-a-minute riot . film buffs will find the usual number of references to look for , although these are perhaps more explicit than in many allen movies , and include double indemnity , rear window , and the lady from shanghi . there certainly may be others , as allen has a habit of putting more into his films than anyone can hope to get in one sitting . while the intention is obviously to draw the viewer into the film , it actually has the opposite effect ; the camera cannot compensate the way the human eye can . admittedly , this method seems less distracting here than in the previous film , although this could be a case of greater exposure breeding immunity . woody allen is rarely a big commercial draw , and whether his off-screen antics will boost his box-office take remains to be seen , but manhattan murder mystery may be his most accessible film since hannah and her sisters . this movie is still pure allen , but the humor is broad-based , and the " quirkiness " often associated with the director is kept to a minimum . frankly , it's been years since i've enjoyed woody allen this much . 
0	stupidity reigns supreme in steve carr's next friday , starring ice cube and written by ice cube and d . j . filled with repugnant racial and sexist stereotypes , the film is an instant candidate for the worst film of the year . most of the characters in the movie appear to have iqs somewhere in the double digits , and the acting doesn't even rise to the level of what you might find in a low-rent comedy club . the plot is well hidden , not that you'll care . the movie relies on gross humor with the film's ongoing joke revolving around the stench from craig's father , mr . jones ( john witherspoon ) . in the opening sequence , a tiny dog has a world-class bowel movement . mr . jones falls backward into the fecal matter but doesn't even change his clothes afterwards . he explains that people in the 'hood can't swim so there was no point in filling it . the fatness of various characters' buttocks is a prime topic of conversation in the story . throughout it all , the baby-faced ice cube manages to be likable in a film that never is . and neither could i . it is rated r for strong language , drug use and sexual content . the film might be considered acceptable for older teens , but i'd hate to see anybody wasting their time watching this movie . 
0	de palma , whose last great film , the untouchables , was crafted over a decade ago seems to have lost his magic . in snake eyes , he manages to elicit some of the worst performances possible out of a skilled cast . only gary sinise rises slightly above the hackneyed material . the rest of the actors become caricatures in this by-the-numbers thriller . ryuichi sakamoto's atmospheric and melodramatic music dominates almost every scene . heavy on the long violin notes , its rhythm is punctuated by thunder . ( the script by de palma and lost world's david koepp sets the action during a hurricane in an attempt to pump up the adrenaline level and the noise . spouting cliched and ridiculous dialog , he screams such lines as , " i was made for the sewer , baby ! " actually the line is more apropos for the movie as a whole . but most people in the film are not who they seem to be , and the thin script makes all of them easy to guess . the plot , which is told in endless flashbacks , concerns the assassination of the secretary through a scheme set up by some malevolent businessmen ? that adjective is , of course , redundant in hollywood thrillers . although a brian de palma film requires a certain amount of gratuitous violence , this one is remarkably tame for the man who became famous when he made carrie . the movie's outline has some promise , but the movie itself is leaden . the film takes itself all too seriously . at best , it is a 1940s-style b movie . a little humor would have helped the script some , but a complete rewrite would have been better . and , although i hate to say it , a different director would have been the biggest improvement . it is rated r for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
0	it's okay for a horror film to be a metaphor ; in fact , they can work best on an underlying psychological level . a scary film can be more than just scary , but it shouldn't work so hard at it that the whole thing becomes a pretentious , preposterous mess . ravenous is just such a convoluted concoction , throwing mountains of sub-text at its tale of cannibalism in the vain hope that something might stick , instead of merely " ick . " every once in a while , when ravenous settles down for some good old-fashioned terror tension , you can almost enjoy it . there are a few nicely staged confrontations and creepy moments in antonia bird's direction ( or perhaps that of milcho manchevski , the director replaced two weeks into production ) , including a sequence involving a sneak attack that builds far longer than you might think possible . writer ted griffin slips a few darkly comic lines into the dialogue , and robert carlyle's manic performance helps support that tone whenever he's on screen . how much more tolerable ravenous might have been if griffin and bird had been content to let the black comedy guide them . instead , it becomes a potpourri of narrative notions and random themes : the dehumanizing destruction of battle ( i . e . , war itself as cannibalism ) , the mad drive for the american frontier ( i . e . , the manifest destiny as cultural/ecological cannibalism ) , the equally mad drive for the gold in them thar hills ( i . e . , the gold rush as economic cannibalism ) , plus yet another gloss on addiction , and on and on to a dizzying degree , with the native american myth of the weendigo thrown in for good measure . boyd's tortured quandary over whether to join this particular diners' club is played as such grand opera , infused with such socio-political baggage , that guy pearce looks like he's carrying the entire weight of western civilization on his shoulders in every scene . no one's saying that the jaunty gruesomeness of eating raoul is the only possible approach for a successful foray into same-species snacking . it may , however , be the best approach . when jeffrey jones is cracking wise while supping on a human stew , ravenous begins to emerge from its coma of self-importance ; when he pleads to be relieved of the misery of his hunger , you wonder when he suddenly developed a character of any significance . at a certain point , ravenous becomes so consumed with putting a heady spin on its subject matter that it consumes itself . a horror film with something to say between shocks is fine . it's rare -- and annoying -- to find one that just won't shut up . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	romy and michele's high school reunion isn't just a film _about_ two eras ; it's a film trapped _between_ two eras . first-time feature film director david mirkin is a veteran executive producer of tv's " the simpsons , " and there are times when romy and michele aims for a similar vein of absurdism and satire . at other times , it is nearly as formulaic and synthetic as the 1980s youth comedies spawned by the films of john hughes . romy and michele is a film with plenty of enjoyable bits and pieces , but it may actually hit its '80s nostalgia target a bit too well . for a while , it seems that romy and michele is going for a clueless sort of ditzy-hip vibe , with sorvino and kudrow sporting garish fashions by clueless designer mona may . may's costumes may by the most valuable player in romy and michele , providing reliable laughs every time we see the stars in a new pair of day-glo platform shoes or a new sausage-casing dress . sorvino and kudrow give satisfying performances , with kudrow straying little from her phoebe characterization from " friends , " but screenwriter robin schiff doesn't give them many good lines to work with . with few exceptions , the big laughs sorvino and kudrow draw are ones they earn through sheer exuberance ; even the fifth or sixth time michele responds to one of romy's observations with a gasp of " me too ! " the sluggish stretches in romy and michele come when schiff and mirkin take long breaks either for exposition flashbacks or fantasy sequences which aren't nearly as amusing as the scenes between the adult romy and michele . worse yet , the exposition serves primarily to set up the morals to the story , and romy and michele spends far too much time serving up more than the recommended daily allowance of reminders to " be yourself . " the comedy becomes terribly predictable at this point , with the last fifteen minutes of romy and michele's high school reunion turning into a succession of cues for us cheer the revenge of the nerds and silly moments of petty vengeance . romy and michele's high school reunion provides some solid belly laughs , but its overly-sincere observations about the high school social order rapidly become frustrating . with its soundtrack full of mid 80s early mtv " classics , " romy and michele is clearly aimed at those who are ready to do some reminiscing about their high school years , but instead of laughing at the absurdity of it all , mirkin and schiff provide what they must think is a necessary catharsis . romy and michele are entertaining characters , but they're in the wrong movie ; their obliviousness is more appealing than their self-awareness . while janeane garofolo provides a necessary dose of ironic distance , sorvino and kudrow are obliged to immerse themselves in a very retro sort of crowd-pleaser . individual moments are satisfying in romy and michele's high school reunion , but it doesn't trust its comic creations to carry the film without important messages . with its reminders of how tough we _all_ had it , regardless of our place on the teenage social ladder , all it really needs is the strident refrain of simple minds' " don't you forget about me " to make the cinematic flashback complete . 
1	alan j . pakula is a director with a somewhat uneven track record . although he garnered an oscar nomination for all the president's men , his sophie's choice might be even better known . i am a special fan of one of his lesser recognized works , the thriller consenting adults . ( someday , i would like to see a film from the british perspective . here we are told from the ira that the british do not really want peace , " they say the word peace , but at the end of the day , all they want is surrender . " all of the films i have seen start with the assumption that the british are oppressing the people of northern ireland , hence the birth of terrorism as a natural and inevitable outgrowth . there are two sides to every issue . it would be refreshing to hear the other . ) ford looks so out of breath that you begin to worry that he may have a real-life heart attack . although the sequence bears remarkable resemblance to the house-to-house battles in france during world war ii , the lighter-weight , automatic weapons , the sound effects editing , and the fast choreography of this part makes it the most successful aspect of the film . the movie has three acts plus the irish prologue . all too often , films do not take the time to adequately setup the characters . in this show , we have just the opposite problem . it seemed that the show might run out of time before they ever got to the action . the slow first act ran over an hour whereas half that time would have been ample . if the people had been more interesting , i would love to have stayed the full hour in this act , but these were pleasant but not particularly compelling characters . they were strangely devoid of emotion . the second act makes the picture . brad pitt struts his stuff and shows off his acting talent . the preposterous final act is mercifully brief . in a plot contrivance , things are wrapped up all too neatly . the show has many extra delights . the irish music is lovely . " it's not an american story . it's an irish one . " you can see the film and see if you think it is a happy ending or not . personally , i would have preferred a bit more ambiguity . it is rated r for realistic violence and for some profanity . it would be fine for teenagers . i admired brad pitt's acting and the strong second act enough to be able to recommend the picture , but it could and should have been much better . i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	amazingly , no one dies in the movie . well , zillions of people are shot and forever stop talking , but death involves pain on the part of the victim and a feeling of emotion by the killer or at least by the bystanders so whatever it was , it could not have been death . perhaps , wild bill is famous writer and director walter hill's homage to the grade b westerns that i saw as a kid . on the other hand , the pretentious cinematography ( lloyd ahern ) and music ( van dyke parks ) of this picture is full of great portents leaving little doubt that the movie has some significant meaning . what , i still have no idea . throughout the show , many people are killed for touching his hat . his motto seems to be : if it moves , shoot it . the first act of the show is a live version of the mayhem of a hieronymus bosch triptych . check your brains at the door because bill can annihilate up to six people at once even if they all have their guns at the ready . you don't want to attempt to analyze the likelihood of any of the scenes . we even have them making love to a loud rendition of the battle hymn of the republic on a player piano . but , we are told that " a man of action , bill found romance perplexing . " hurt's acting is mediocre , but his rich narration adds a lot of atmosphere . the script is the biggest problem with the show . wild bill is not gandhi , and walter hill should have lighted up some . a little humor would have helped . the characters are interesting as caricature , but not as real people . there is no one in the show that the audience cares whether they live or die . jeff bridges , a notorious overactor , is restrained , interesting , but unreal in wild bill . diane lane is abysmal as mccall's mother susannah , and david arquette gives a lifeless version of mccall . there actually is more good to the show than the narration . the cinematography is imaginative although sometimes too pedantic and certainly too repetitive . the rust colored exteriors and the scary nighttime interiors are good in conveying the image of importance to the show . the scene transitions are done with white like the white flash of a gun . at first , this worked quite well , but after a while the images are shown on shifting diagonals , and the overexposure increases until the images are almost invisible . if you need to go to the restroom , do it during this scene and take your time . perhaps you want to visit the snackbar as well and get a popcorn refill . you will miss nothing , and the scene will still be going when you return . wild bill runs too long at 1 : 38 , but for some reason the movie is intriguing , and i never wanted to leave . we saw it on opening night at a totally empty theater so it does not seem destined to be a blockbuster . it is rated r for massive killings , general violence , and sex , but no real nudity . i do not recommend the show to anyone , but it would be okay for most teenagers since the violence is more cartoonish than gory . i award the movie a single * for no reason other than it kept my attention , and i did not totally hate it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 1 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	a companion piece in the truest sense of the term , the godfather part ii earned as much adulation as its predecessor , if not more . garnering twelve academy award nominations , and again winning best picture ( and this time best director for coppola as well ) , the second installment has been rightfully hailed as the best sequel of all time . the godfather part ii is a more ambitious production than the original since it attempts not only to tell a pair of completely disconnected stories , but to do so in parallel . broken trust arising from so intimate a source can be devastating . if the end of the first film was numbing , this one is shattering . a more comprehensive contrast emerges through the lengthy sequences detailing vito corleone's rise from obscurity . expansion is replaced by slow disintegration , energy and success by pain and failure . while this occasionally happens ( most notably in the first shift back to 1917 , shortly after the assassination attempt on michael ) , coppola handles the transitions adroitly , keeping the pace consistent enough to limit any sense of jarring or disorientation . the traditional elements of the tragedy introduced in the godfather reach their maturity in part ii . his flaw is his imperceptiveness and , as is the case for any hero in a story of this nature , its effects are crippling . visually , many of michael's scenes have a more gloomy appearance this time around . especially during the latter portions of the film , the don is shown in severely underexposed settings , appearing as a silhouette . his is a voice from the darkness--a photographic mirror of what's happening beneath the surface . as the beginning of part ii echoes the opening of the godfather , so too does the end . because of the manner in which circumstances are handled and considering the people involved , the impact here is more forceful . the tragic flaw has accomplished its poisonous , inevitable designs . coppola punctuates both movies with a gut-twisting exclamation point . few sequels have expanded upon the original with the faithfulness and detail of this one . beneath the surface veneer of an ethnic period piece , the godfather is not so much about crime lords as it is about prices paid in the currency of the soul for decisions made and avoided . it is that quality which establishes this saga as timeless . 
1	howard hughes originally entitled it " the man he found , " but on second thought felt the red-menace presented a film with a more modern impact for audiences . despite being shot again , the film still cost the studio only $376 , 000 . warning : spoiler in the next paragraph . for a propaganda film , this one is not bad . it's far superior to other such films on this topic made during the 1950s ( such as the red menace ) . of course , the story of a commie town made up of ex-nazis prospering in the middle of america is hard to swallow , but as sheer entertainment value this one somehow works . it's directed by the very capable auteur , william cameron menzies , the noted art director whose talents greatly enhanced films such as gwtw . 
1	a walk on the moon , actor tony goldwyn's directorial debut , takes place at a low-budget jewish resort in the catskills -- think dirty dancing but set in cheap cabins and without any dancing . the time is the summer of 1969 and period events like the first walk on the moon and the woodstock music festival get prominent placement in the storyline although the movie has little to do with either one . the well cast movie is glacially paced as if it were in some sort of trance . except for one completely predictable and brief bit of dramatic tension that occurs in the middle , the movie drifts along like a sailing ship lost in a placid sea without any wind to provide momentum . the actors , for all of their talent , never seem engaged . after a couple of meetings , they are off having sex , movie style , under waterfalls as well as in slightly more conventional and believable places like in his bus . " you had your chance . " " no , i didn't , " pearl complains . since the film is almost devoid of dramatic tension , it could have used some humor to give it some spark of energy . " i'm a bad listener . i'm not a very good talker either . " regretfully , such insightful lines like these rarely occur in a walk on the moon . instead , the movie just limps along until it runs out the clock , having never accomplished anything . the only memorable parts of the movie are a few good woodstock songs , but you probably already know them anyway . a walk on the moon runs 1 : 45 but feels longer . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity and drug usage and would be fine for older teenagers . 
1	cast : pierre richard , nino kirtadze , timur kamkhadze , micheline presle , jean-yves gautier director : nana dzhordzadze producer : marc ruscart screenplay : irakli kvirikadze cinematography : georgi beridze music : goran bregovic u . s . distributor : sony pictures classics in french and russian with subtitles a chef in love , georgia's entry into the 1997 academy awards sweepstakes , is a frustrating motion picture . frustrating , because this poorly-focused movie is guilty , first and foremost , of not taking advantage of its chief assets . films about food and culinary wizards are almost always evocative creations that tease the senses , even if they're imperfectly prepared . a chef in love barely tickles the palate , and certainly won't drive scores of movie-goers in search of a quality meal the way babette's feast did . the film is structured in an irritatingly non-chronological fashion . instead of presenting the narrative in a straightforward manner , director nana dzhordzadze and screenwriter irakli kvirikadze have decided to skip around in time , flashing back and forward to events during the 1920s , while presenting the entire story from the perspective of a man reading the chef's memoirs from 70 years in the future . although this approach isn't as chaotic as it sounds , it dilutes character development and leaves us floundering in our attempts to get a solid grip on the emotional core of the romance that lies at a chef in love's center . for films like pulp fiction and before the rain , the non-chronological structure was effective , because it amplified the plot . in a chef in love , there doesn't appear to be a compelling reason for it , and the jumps and cuts serve primarily to distract us from the story dzhordzadze is trying to tell . a chef in love purports to be about the enduring power of love ( even a revolution and all sorts of nasty characters can't kill what pascal and cecilia share ) , but the film's exploration of the subject matter isn't compelling . although dzhordzadze tries to trick us into believing that pascal and cecilia's romance is a great cinematic love affair , it comes across as incomplete and poorly-sketched . as a result , we're expected to accept them as passionate lovers simply because the screenplay tells us that they are . that's a cheat , and it's one of the reasons why a chef in love falters . the modern-day scenes in a chef in love are pointless . one revelation late in the film seemingly justifies the presence of these characters , but it's not all that effective because we don't spend enough time with anton and marcelle to know them as more than plot devices . the lead actors , pierre richard and nino kirtadze , are wonderful , and it's thanks to their efforts that we develop a genuine liking and sympathy for pascal and cecilia . richard is especially noteworthy , giving a performance that is both bigger than and full of life . despite being more subdued , kirtadze's portrayal is no less stirring . even as circumstances force cecilia into zigmund's arms , we sense that she will always love pascal , and only pascal , and that lends an element of effective tragedy to an otherwise- erratic story . unfortunately , few of the supporting actors do much with their roles . in particular , timur kamkhadze is disappointing because he is unable to develop zigmund into more than an almost-cartoonish villain . a chef in love is being marketed as a worthy successor to the likes of babette's feast and big night . however , it isn't in the same category as either , and not just because it doesn't truly tantalize our senses of taste and smell . when it comes to plot and character , both of those films possessed a richness that a chef in love fails to attain . with its melodramatic flourishes and confused , anecdotal approach , this movie is frequently overdone or underdone , but rarely cooked to perfection . 
1	in fact , the whole reason that blue in the face was made was that the directors and the cast found that they had an extra week on their hands , so hey , they decided to make a fast , improvisational movie with the same sets and some of the same cast . the result is a fun , upbeat movie that is another talk fest just like smoke , but not as serious - think of it as smoke-lite . the writing is credited to the directors , but it feels like the actors were winging it most of the time . the movie is a series of crazy incidents like that . intertwined with the regular movie , there are two different series of interviews , documentary style . one series is done with a cheap camcorder that produces grainy , saturated images . i believe that these interviews were real . that's like the breakfast of champions . " keitel makes you feel good to be alive . his smile is infectious . you want so bad to be there swapping stories . in fact the ultimate message of the film has to be that the brotherhood of mankind transcends all races . many scenes feature actors of one race telling how many people of some other race live in brooklyn . i have only touched on the numerous sketches in blue in the face . it is a fun time at the movies . the costumes ( claudia brown ) are a little more outlandish than smoke since i think she wanted to tease the audience a bit more . it is rated r for a little nudity and a little bad language . personally , i would have given it a pg-13 . it would be fine for any teenager , and perhaps even slightly younger kids . this is a little movie that i am not wild about , but did enjoy , and i can and do recommend it to you . it gets * * 1/2 in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 23 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	denmark/poland , 1995 running length : 0 : 56 mpaa classification : no mpaa rating ( nothing offensive ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 shown at the philadelphia festival of world cinema , 5/1/97 , 5/6/97 , &=20 5/11/97 cast : krzysztof kieslowski director : krzysztof wierzbicki producer : karen hjort cinematography : jacek petrycki music : zbigniew preisner in polish with subtitles the hour long film , which was=20 made for danish television , featured kieslowski's recollections of his=20 life and movies , along with several candid shots of the director=20 relaxing and enjoying his retirement . what was initially intended as a=20 fairly inconsequential interview unwittingly turned into a remarkable=20 tribute . does i'm so-so offer any new insights into the director's psyche ? during the course of one hour , there's hardly=20 any topic that goes untouched by kieslowski , which speaks highly not=20 only of the subject of the film , but of the interviewer , wierzbicki . =20 kieslowski has always shunned the spotlight ( preferring to " sit in a=20 dark room and smoke " ) , so it's a credit to this film's director that he=20 was able to present such a candid and moving portrait . for example , he believes that everyone is=20 entitled to their privacy and certain things should not be photographed=20 for the screen . " can you film a real death and use it as a=20 documentary ? " he asks . it's meant to be a redundant question . =20 admitting that he turned the camera on himself in every picture=20 that he made ( like the protagonist in camera buff at the movie's end ) , =20 kieslowski never saw himself as anything more than a film director with=20 a bleak view of the world . " i have only one good characteristic . i'm a=20 pessimist=85 the future is a black hole . " and he indicates that he believes all=20 interpretations of his films to be valid , stating that he made movies so=20 that everyone could take something different from them . i'm so-so presents a broad overview of kieslowski's career , zeroing=20 in on a few select films for more in-depth discussion . the title comes from kieslowski's belief that people should not lie=20 about how they're feeling just for the sake of polite conversation . in truth , however , there's=20 nothing " so-so " about this particular motion picture . krzysztof=20 kieslowski : i'm so-so is a striking picture of an extraordinary man who=20 made some of the most powerful films of the last two decades . this=20 movie will live alongside the director's body of work as an important=20 and informative companion piece . 
1	the trigger effect , a psychological thriller from david koepp , opens with an image of coyotes tearing at a dead carcass . it's a visceral , unsettling scene , and you'd have to be more than a little dense not to figure out that it's a metaphor . and , while this film admittedly has its share of problems , it at least does a better job of achieving that goal than this year's adaptation of the h . g . wells story . to the extent that the trigger effect is intended as a tense , somewhat nerve-wracking thriller , it's adequate , and certainly better than the formula-driven likes of the hand that rocks the cradle . first- time director koepp , working with tips from steven spielberg and brian de palma ( koepp co-wrote jurassic park and mission impossible , and was able to call on the directors of those films for advice ) , handles the material smoothly . the flaws lie mainly in the script that writer koepp gave himself to direct . the premise is as intriguing as it is timely : what if some freak occurrence caused a massive , perhaps country-wide , blackout ? there's no electricity , telephones don't work , and no tv or radio stations are on the air . no one understands what's happening . the specter of anarchy looms . the trigger effect's most serious problem is that , while the tension is palpable , the setup generating it feels contrived . once we settle into koepp's plot , the story is solid enough to keep our interest , but it's difficult to plow through all the artificiality that burdens the film's early scenes . the characters seem like creations of the moment ; we have no sense of their history , and we certainly don't like them -- they're irritating and self-centered . it's as if they didn't exist before first appearing on screen . too much of the interpersonal strife between matt , annie , and joe seems manufactured , and , since it doesn't feel natural , it damages our ability to accept the trio as human beings rather than products of a writer's imagination . ultimately , the trigger effect is about how people react when driven by desperation , and , to a lesser extent , how humanity has come to rely too heavily on technology . there are times when these themes are hammered home a little too zealously , but , unlike in the island of dr . moreau , we're spared a sermon . heavy-handed symbolism and obvious metaphors are as far as the trigger effect goes . once koepp has brought us through the awkward setup , things improve dramatically . at times , koepp's vision is almost post-apocalyptic , which gives the film a dark , paranoid edge . the reason for the blackout is never explained , which is probably a good thing -- the film works better with the cause left as a matter of conjecture . had koepp fashioned better- rounded characters with a more believable central conflict , the trigger effect could have been an outstanding example of high-energy , thought- provoking cinema . however , as it is , it's more intriguing than memorable , and worthwhile only to those with the patience to sit through a dissatisfying and uneven first half-hour . 
1	woody allen plays a vintage woody allen character resurrected from his films of old in small time crooks , a movie which he also wrote and directed . it is the starring role in the type of silly comedies that first made him famous . this one isn't in the same league as the classic woody comedies , which it mimics , but it is a pleasant little movie that's as easy to listen to as woody's signature jazz scoring . his script proves better than its delivery perhaps because the actors seem a bit tired , like vaudevillians who've done the same routine so often that they've lost their edge . " what would you say if i told you that you were married to a very brilliant man ? " " i'd say , i'd have to be a bigamist ! " neither of them excels in brains or class . and their outlandish outfits match the decor perfectly . " my idea of a good time is not opera and ruins , " says ray . " i get enough sleep at home . " he just wants people to laugh at his jokes . they just stare at him without laughing or even blinking an eye . eventually the movie ends as much because it just runs out of steam as because the plot has reached its predictable conclusion . although it has a few nice laughs , the movie never rises above forgettable fluff . if you want to see the real thing , rather than this pale imitation , just rent some of woody's early pictures and savor what he once was capable of creating . it is rated pg for mild language and innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . 
0	the other is an adorable colleen haskell from the original " survivor " series , who plays schneider's human love interest . as you watch her being delightful in a movie which is awful , you find yourself eagerly awaiting her next picture , which has to be better . are you laughing yet ? you aren't ? a man who lusts after every tail -- of whatever species -- in sight ? okay , i give up . you aren't laughing . the movie's tagline nicely sums it up : " he wasn't much of a man . . . . well , this much can be said in the animal's defense . it isn't the worst movie of the week . by a nose , it loses this dubious distinction to another juvenile comedy , what's the worst that could happen ? it is rated pg-13 for some crude and sexual humor and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the picture just a single * . he said it was plotless slapstick that had only a few funny moments . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
0	the final part in our trilogy about the intellectually challenged is a goofy movie . parts i ( forrest gump ) and parts ii ( dumb and dumber ) were live action films . the concluding piece is advertised as " walt disney presents : a goofy movie--it's hard to be cool when your dad is goofy " . a goofy movie stars the classic cartoon character of goofy . normally , goofy is given silly things to do . he then acts just as silly as his material , and it all works for some simple and harmless laughs . this time the producer ( dan rounds ) decided to cast goofy in a realistic role and test the bounds of the character while keeping his iq in double digits . in a goofy movie we find goofy as an apparently single dad . i got very tired very fast of watching the stereotyping . as one who has a good relationship with his son and who understands that it is both quantity and quality of time that matter , i found the cliches a bit hard to take after a while . my 6 year old and i went together to see the movie . he liked a few of the laughs but overall did not care for the movie that much . he got scared several times of something he could or would not identify--my guess is that it was the way the son treated the dad and the way the dad was shown as such a dunce . if they wanted to make a movie about goofy , then they should have found a better script for him . if they felt they wanted to talk about father and son relationships in a cartoon , then make the dad at least a little bit smarter and the teenager just a bit more caring . there was some parts of the show that were outstanding . i thought the colors were delightful ; the rose and purple pastels were especially lovely and soothing . the sets were imaginative as well so that watching the visuals were a delight--too bad i could not have turned off the sound . she was extremely cute without being suggestive . i think drawing realistic and attractive women or girls is hard to do in cartoons . ever gone to a new girlfriend's house being a little bit scared of what her dad might be like and how he might treat you ? well , welcome to your worst nightmare . a goofy movie is correctly rated g . there is nothing of the classic categories ( sex , drugs , violence , or bad words ) to offend . the movie runs a bearably short 1 : 17 . i do not recommend it to anyone nor does my son . i am not sure who the audience for this movie is . it is too juvenile for teenagers , but only teenagers could really understand max . i award the movie * 1/2 for making a beautiful film and for the character of the girlfriend . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	in the most anticipated movie of the holiday season , jim carrey recreates boris karloff's famous grinch role in how the grinch stole christmas . the 1966 television original , an annual christmas tradition in the rhodes household , is an animated film . even if the remake pales in comparison to the original , it is a cute and funny movie in its own right . as you probably know , the grinch is a " bah humbug " kind of guy who tries to keep christmas from coming to the sweet whos by stealing all of their presents and decorations . in a tribute to the original show and book , the remake keeps most of the lines but adds in more story in order to triple the length of the original half-hour show . anthony hopkins , as the narrator , is the perfect choice to replace boris karloff , whose voice was the best part of the original production . with the exception of his speeding up and slurring a few lines , hopkins provides a wonderful rendition of the seuss rhyme . the inventive result is a snow-covered cross between willy wonka & the chocolate factory and the wizard of oz . only carrey's expressive mouth is recognizable . the story's laughs come from both the gadgets and the dialog . one of the funniest scenes occurs when the toddler grinch is offered christmas cookies on a plate made in the image of santa claus . biting off santa's head rather than eating a cookie , the little grinch announces , " santa , bye-bye . " sometimes , it's the small things that make a difference . the sweet little dog , max , in this version is a wonderful dog who acts and even looks kind of like the original . i like that . it is rated pg for crude humor and would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 11 , thought this version was funnier than the original , but not better . he gave it * * * , mentioning how much he liked the gadgets . 
2	with for your eyes only , roger moore's fifth appearance as bond and the twelfth entry in the long-running series , 007 enters the 1980s with a return to the " glory days " of the '60s . realizing it would be tough to top the technical glitz of moonraker , the film makers wisely chose not to try , opting instead for a retro-bond adventure that takes the intrepid superspy back into familiar territory : kgb involvement in a plan that centers on classified british secrets . but that's not the only aspect of for your eyes only that looks more to bond's past than his future . on a per- minute basis , there are more stunts and chases in this film than in any previous 007 adventure , and some are quite spectacular . there's a car chase , a shoot-and-dodge race down icy slopes and through a bobsled run , a tense mountain-scaling sequence , and nearly as much underwater action as in thunderball . for your eyes only has its share of breathtaking moments . as for the music -- suffice it to say that john barry is missed . alas , julian glover's kristatos won't be remembered as one of the great 007 bad guys . while the actor's ability is beyond question , it's usually not talent that makes for a memorable bond villain , and glover just isn't over-the-top or nasty enough . ( one wonders if the film makers might have done better keeping blofeld around for more than the pre-credits sequence . ) locque ( michael gothard ) , kristatos' henchman , is as dull as his master -- he looks evil , but in the wake of jaws , comes across as rather pathetic . lynn-holly johnson plays a young skater who's infatuated with 007 , but this particular subplot , played for comedy , never works , and is occasionally painful to endure . fortunately , it doesn't eat up much screen time . in the final analysis , for your eyes only is a solid adventure , although it could have been better . there's enough action to hold those with even a short attention span , and roger moore's deft charm hasn't yet begun to wear thin ( that starts with the next film , octopussy ) . by the end of the '80s , bond would be viewed as something of a relic , but at least the decade opened with an enjoyable outing . 
1	don roos ( " the opposite of sex " ) , the director-screenwriter , has come up with a smart script and lets his adult stars act like real adults do and is not ashamed of the glossy film becoming a tearjerker , and when the romance story tugs shamelessly at my heart it feels good because there is a heartfelt rhythm in this film that allowed me to clearly see what the troubled couple is feeling without it seeming to be contrived , even though it is contrived . in fact , the film is thoroughly engrossing and well-crafted until the closing scenes , where some speeches are made to clear the air , which seemed totally unnecessary . what helped carry the film through such contrived spots , was the real-life romantic couple who star in the film , ben affleck and gwyneth paltrow , playing two hurt souls who don't expect to fall in love but do . they had great chemistry onscreen , and paltrow in particular , seemed to make the story appealing and credible . in the hollywood tradition of such love stories , it seemed easy for the audience to root for them to get together and make the romance work . the only thing is , that the film is a little tougher than how most mainstream films do romances but is not edgy enough to be an art film , so it falls into the category of being not one or the other type of film , which might cause it to be ignored by both audiences . sex is not presented as the prize here , as much as a serious and meaningful relationship is . it has probably been ages since that theme was tried as seriously as it was in this mainstream film , and that just might be the most refreshing thing about the film . since paltrow is the better actor , she mops up the screen in these scenes of anguish and is convincing as someone who has been damaged and is afraid of getting hurt again . affleck is good as an actor conveying someone who is arrogant and shallow and full of false bravado , but is not convincing as someone who has been down for the count and is bouncing back as a changed man . it left me wondering , how sensitive of a person could he really have become , if he could only help her materially and not understand that his drinking masked deeper problems he had in his character , such as lying ! but the film had enough of a realistic romance under its belt to not be buried for dead with its contrivances . in additition it had some pretty good players in supporting roles . joe morton always gives a fine performance , and here as the sturdy , no-nonsense businessman he grounds the film in some needed reality . this modest production scored with me . and if it didn't have that phony civil court scene at the end , with affleck forced to act in such a disingenuously apologetic manner , the film would have been much better . but i was glad to be taken in by what i was seeing onscreen , that is an adult romantic film , with the adults interested in having a real relationship . i'm so conditioned by now , that i think only foreign films or art house films operate that way . 
2	an mgm dazzler , a striking musical , satirizing the staging of a broadway play . it is a technically superior work , making up for a thin plot with plenty of lively musical scores and dance numbers , and a constant barrage of witty dialogue . many critics consider this one to be the best musical of all time . the musical becomes the stage for the battle between pop culture versus high art , with the film favoring the low brow art form . clifton webb was first-choice for the buchanan part , but he turned it down because it wasn't a starring role . however , he did recommend buchanan to the studio for the part , and the studio was rewarded in its choice by getting an outstanding performance from him . this is a film dominated by its magnificent musical numbers scored by howard dietz and arthur schwartz . the songs include the following : 'a shine on your shoes , ' 'dancing in the dark , ' 'that's entertainment , ' 'by myself , ' my favorite number about triplets who do not like each other- 'triplets , ' 'new sun in the sky , ' 'i guess i'll have to change my plans- the highlight of this number is a soft-shoe by astaire and buchanan , ' 'louisiana hayride , ' 'i love louisa , ' and an eight-minute dream number that is the climax of the film-- a jazz-dance spoof on mickey spillane's 'girl hunt , ' with cyd showing off her long dancing legs as a femme fatale in a smoky barroom and delivering a very sexy routine in a sequined red dress and black mesh tights . this technicolor dance routine didn't seem to fit into the rest of the film , except it seemed to point out what the film was trying to say about mixing together both art forms , as the dance was both derived from the lexicon of pop culture and from the high arts . the marton scenarists write a broadway show for tony hunter and get the pretentious jeffrey cordova to direct it . they both feel inferior when not doing the role they feel comfortable in and try to see if they can work out a satisfactory way in which to be dance partners . the martons are disappointed that the director has ignored their script . he converts the play back to the marton's fluffy original script . it all ends on a happily banal note , as they sing 'that's entertainment , ' signifying that whether it's a play by shakespeare or bojangles dancing , you still have to entertain an audience . the arthur freed production team , true to the film's theme , have created a most entertaining film . vincent minnelli's direction was accomplished with much style and panache . if you like an old-fashioned broadway musical , you can't go wrong with this one . 
1	starring : meg ryan , kevin kline , timothy hutton , jean reno , susan anbeh director : lawrence kasdan producers : tim bevan , eric fellner , meg ryan , and kathryn f . galan screenplay : adam brooks cinematography : owen roizman music : james newton howard released by twentieth century fox another year , another meg ryan romantic comedy . in 1994 , it was i . q . in 1993 , it was sleepless in seattle . and the thing is , no matter how she wears her hair , she always plays basically the same character--bubbly and energetic yet repressed . that description fits her latest on-screen personae , french kiss' kate . but the problem is that having played the type so often , ryan has gone on auto-pilot . this time around , the effervescence is flat and the likableness is forced . kate is champagne that has stood out too long . not so with the male lead in this lawrence kasdan-directed film . kevin kline , who won an oscar as otto in a fish called wanda , brings the same degree of comic aptitude to luc , a good-hearted scoundrel . with a flair and enthusiasm that everyone else involved with this production seems to lack , kline very nearly single-handedly saves this film . almost , but not quite . they say it takes two to tango , and with meg ryan's moves so much more mechanical than those of her partner , this pair engages in a decidedly clumsy dance . the storyline takes the same old romantic comedy formula , bends it a little ( but not too much -- kasdan apparently doesn't want his audience to feel uncomfortable by facing new territory ) , and adds a few passages of decent dialogue . there is one scene early in the film with kate and luc discussing kissing that's noteworthy for its sincerity and intelligence . this isn't kieslowski or rohmer , but it's about the deepest one can reasonably expect from this type of motion picture . lifeless performances by ryan and hutton aside , this movie might have been more endearing had it spent less time on the inane jewelry theft story and more time developing something other than a cliched relationship between the two leads . french kiss isn't all bad -- it has its share of mild humor , and the scenery in paris and cannes is often more photogenic than the actors . however , the delicate air of romance that often makes this sort of film worthwhile is absent . french kiss does it by the numbers , not from the heart . 
2	screenplay : andrew w . marlowe . director : wolfgang petersen . the phenomenally popular presidency of ronald reagan , if nothing else , gave us a solid sense of what the american people really want in a chief executive . if that phrase doesn't describe harrison ford among all a-list hollywood stars , i don't know whom it does describe . that kind of man isn't just the perfect president -- he's also the perfect action hero . air force one is an extraordinarily effective thriller by any standard , but it's even better with ford on board . wolfgang petersen's direction combines the claustrophobia of das boot with the cat-and-mouse dynamic of in the line of fire , then throws in a few stomach-churning dogfights and mid-air escape attempts just for seasoning . there hasn't been a more assured piece of technical film-making in theaters this year , nor a more riveting action spectacle . ford , however , moves air force one from the realm of the mere thrill ride to something more potent . it is the " honor " part of that equation which may raise a few hackles over the rah-rah patriot games of air force one . still , andrew w . marlowe's script never feels jingo all the way . lecture me on the articles of war " ) . in fact , every performer takes chances which make air force one more than a simple crowd-pleaser . the gutsiest choices may be those made by glenn close , playing vice-president kathryn bennett . in a more pandering film , bennett would have been the take-charge woman in a room full of ineffectual men . not that anyone could blame her . part of what makes air force one so satisfying -- and , at times , so wryly amusing -- is that it places president marshall squarely in the real world of 1990s american political consciousness . the unswerving devotion , the candlelight vigils and the tremendous popularity all make perfect sense as the reactions of cynics in the presence of true greatness . it's easy to get caught up in the thrills of air force one , not just because it is so well-constructed , but because we're watching a national fantasy . there's only one thing missing from the finale of air force one : harrison ford should step onto the tarmac at dulles , tip his hat to the assembled throng , sweep the first lady up onto his trusty horse , and ride into the sunset . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	this is a movie made for those who enjoy bad films . it's an exploitation teen movie with no redeeming social or entertainment value . it also fails to deliver any messages , to raise social consciousness , or to succeed as an artistic film . it's just a badly scripted and acted film , that by being so terrible might provide a few chuckles for the discrete viewer who likes looking through trash . the film ends sugarcoated with false piety and some idiotic questions are asked about the kids ; such as , where will the kids go ? the only question i had , was why make a film like this ? this film was as real as a snowball in hell . 
2	cast : valentina cervi , michel serrault , miki manojlovic director : agnes merlet producer : patrice haddad screenplay : agnes merlet , christine mille cinematography : benoit delhomme music : krishna levy u . s . distributor : miramax zoe in french with subtitles for its first two-thirds , agnes merlet's artemisia is a fine examination of the process of creating art and the inextricable ( if sometimes tenuous ) link that binds it to sexuality . however , while the movie's final half-hour is adequate as a melodrama , its conformance to certain expectations of the " historical romance " genre robs it of the vitality that characterizes the early portions of the film . as a result , although artemisia is an engaging and occasionally fascinating motion picture , it is not a landmark cinematic biography . her best-known painting , " judith beheading holophernes , " was completed in 1612 , and has often been cited as one of the most passionate and proficient works of art crafted by a woman during the seventeenth century . italian-born valentina cervi ( portrait of a lady ) plays the lead character with the right mix of innocence and sensuality . rounding out the main cast is veteran french actor michel serrault ( la cage aux folles , nelly & m . arnaud ) , who brings an air of quiet dignity to his performance as orazio . it's debatable how accurate merlet's treatment of artemisia's affair with tassi is ( the surviving court records of the rape trial indicate that it was a somewhat less romantic liaison than is presented here ) , but it makes for a compelling story . especially noteworthy are the scenes in which tassi instructs artemisia about the techniques of art , reigning in her natural passion and allowing her to harness a burgeoning talent . artemisia's fascination with sex and the naked male body leads to an ever-present subtext about the relationship between eroticism and art -- a subject that has fascinated scholars and laymen alike throughout history . in the context of this film , it not only impels the narrative , but captures and holds the viewer's attention . with artemisia , merlet paints a beautiful and intriguing , if somewhat incomplete , picture . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	this is the plot of dozens of sports-related motion pictures , including hoosiers , one of the best basketball-related films . it is * not * , however , the plot of blue chips , a rare example of an entry into this genre which attempts to be honest and unique . it's not that his players don't have heart , but the western university dolphins are thin on talent , so getting several blue chip prospects becomes the driving motivation for the off-season . perhaps the best decision made by writer ron shelton and director william friedkin was to focus on the off-court politics of recruiting rather than on the team's wins and losses . in the end , that's what makes blue chips different from so many other , similarly-marketed movies . it is a catalyst , not a conclusion . those who expect shaquille o'neal to dominate the film will be disappointed . while the nba star has his share of scenes , the acting required is limited ( and mercifully within his capabilities--this is nothing like dan marino's movie debut in ace ventura ) . from start to finish , this is nick nolte's picture , and his performance is energetic to the point of frenzy . there's a good dose of reality in this story , even if the script occasionally becomes too preachy . the end sequences especially could have been toned down . blue chips is peppered with subtle humor and in jokes . the film's conclusion also features a droll parody of the " what happened to our characters after this movie ends . . . " messages that reality-based dramas often scroll across the screen . as for the actual basketball sequences , they're exceptionally well done , as accurately capturing as possible the feel of a college game . the presence of several real-life stars elevates the level of on-court intensity . shaquille o'neal and anfernee hardaway may be merely adequate delivering their lines , but they're electric with the ball in their hands . blue chips will obviously appeal more to basketball aficionados than to those who are indifferent to the sport . despite an advertising blitz of slam-dunks and crisp passes , this film has a story to tell which does not demand a recognition of dick vitale . the theme , which deals with facing the consequences of one's actions , is universal , even if the attraction of " the shaq " isn't . 
1	fire on the mountain is a movie with a broad appeal . viewers interested in skiing or in world war ii will certainly find this documentary fascinating , but it speaks to a much wider audience . it is a humorous , touching and historically revealing picture . the best documentaries take you to places and events you cannot get to on your own . fire on the mountain is a new documentary now in theatrical release about a group of fun loving and courageous men of whom i'll bet you've never heard . the film starts with the skiers showing off their stuff in vintage clips from before the war . the weakness of the film is that too many of these are the classic funny falls that ski buffs might like , but of which others will quickly tire . luckily the film is much more than this . the old clips have aged surprisingly well and some of the shots are spectacularly beautiful . most are in the oversaturated color of that era's film stock , but some of the clips are in black and white . i expected most to be in black and white , which turned out not to be the case . one exercise that lasted 6 weeks in 30-below-zero weather was so strenuous that in one day alone 100 men were hospitalized with frostbite . the balance between interviews and old films is about right . the interviews with the veterans are poignant . " we fought like hell . that's the way a war should be fought . " as one pointed out , in 1943 aspen had only two buildings . of the film's three parts -- training , war , and ski industry -- only the first two are interesting . the last part of the film drags , but the whole movie is so short that this is not a significant problem . the end of the movie is good as the septuagenarians climb riva ridge one more time in celebration of the battle's fiftieth anniversary . " people ask me if i've retired , " he says . " i say yes . it is not rated but would be pg-13 for the wartime scenes . the film would be fine for kids say nine and up . i recommend this enlightening picture and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	since edmond rostand first committed the play to paper in 1897 , cyrano de bergerac has become a reliable romantic formula . and , with a standout performance by janeane garofalo , this loose reworking makes for solid , if feather- light , entertainment . it's hard to say enough about how good garofalo is in this , her first major movie part . in previous outings like reality bites and bye bye love , where she had supporting roles , she stole scenes ; here , she walks away with the entire picture . possessing the rare star quality and natural charisma of performers like sandra bullock , marisa tomei , and natalie portman , garofalo not only " eats up the lens " , but also displays a fair amount of acting ability . she's effective in dramatic moments , and her comic timing is perfect . buying into the premise of the truth about cats and dogs -- that any man could mistake a ditz like noelle for abby -- requires a huge suspension of disbelief , but , once you get past that stumbling block , the film is disarmingly charming , and even offers a few flashes of substance . nothing in the screenplay is groundbreaking , but there are some observations about low self-confidence . the requisite chemistry between chaplin and garofalo is present , and the story follows an unthreateningly predictable route . director michael lehmann keeps both pacing and tone on track . there aren't many surprises , but the script is written with a degree of wit , and there are some bitingly funny one-liners ( all of which are delivered by garofalo ) . as a romantic comedy , the truth about cats and dogs offers exactly what fans of the genre appreciate -- lighthearted fun . 
1	" my brother and i were born strangers . " set in 1957 in haley , illinois , the show is reminiscent of several old movies , but the story remains fresh and relevant . doug has fewer social graces than his slightly older brother jacey . baker's minor , but crucial , role has its biggest impact in a small revelation scene at the dinner table . jennifer connelly gives a strong performance as the sexually promiscuous sister . her no-holds-barred role even includes one of the few comedic scenes in the show . alice's role is small , and going's acting diminishes rather than enhances its importance . the costumes by aggie guerard rodgers and the makeup , transform a normally radiant tyler into a gawky teenager -- the mirror image of her looks in stealing beauty . tyler's acting is convincing during this part , but not later when pam has supposedly matured some . patton ( the spitfire grill ) outlines his part but little more , happy to keep it pure formula . screenwriter ken hixon creates a movie full of poignant and realistic vignettes . the film's major difficulties stem from pat o'connor's direction . o'conner , who gave us the delightful circle of friends , seems incapable of weaving hixon's vignettes into a compelling whole . the film drags frequently and the actors are allowed to let their voices taper off into incomprehensible , low mumbles . the film's pacing and energy level too often sag . the good parts are so insightful and strong that they easily carry the picture , but the interludes can be quite frustrating . inventing the abbotts runs 1 : 50 . it is rated r for sex , nudity , and some profanity . it would be fine for teenagers . the film's high points make the movie well worth recommending , but its droughts make me able to give it only * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : april 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	though the film subtly is weighted in favor on the feminist side of the question , it still for most of the film chooses , instead , to overtly attack both sides for caring only about their opinions and not about the individual . since the film will not offer its opinion about what to do with this not so nice or redeemable idler , but chooses to show its fairness by unfairly attacking both sides of the abortion argument . this leaves us wondering how much the filmmaker really cared about ruth . so it doesn't really surprise me that a film tackling a taboo political subject should be so cautious and centrist in its views . but what bothers me , is that this film came on pretending to be hip to the problems of the homeless . norm echoes all the obnoxious slogans and dogmas and hypocrisies of his fundamental christian beliefs . everyone in the film is stereotyped : the pro-lifers are republicans , religious fanatics , family value people , sexually repressed , drivers of station wagons , and self-righteous . the pro-choicers are democrats , lesbians , pagan worshippers , those with loose morals , without god , and insincere . again , the arguments against both sides is handled in an even-handed manner . both leaders are viewed as hypocrites . the only thing that can save this film from its cautious stand , is what you thought of dern's performance . and that is the rub against the picture , it can't get beyond the absurd nature of its satire , as everyone in the film remains a cartoon figure . so the outcome should come as no particular surprise . could this really be payne's idea of how to resolve the issue ? as for dern's grating and , at times , just too much of an annoying performance , it failed to evoke concern for her plight . by the film's end she still appeared to be white-trash , to be laughed at and dismissed as being someone society can't help . the entire film's satire was a futile effort at comedy . it's weak position on the issues allowed it to throw stones at everyone and seem like it was hip to what was going on , but in reality it changed no one's mind about abortion ; and , in the bargain , it wasn't a particularly funny film . 
1	a more conventional and not as absorbing remake of mystery of the wax museum , 1933 , made with the gimmick of 3-d ( used in a fun way with novelty shots of a barker batting paddleballs in your face and a murderer jumping seemingly out at the audience ) . it also effectively used the special warner color process . strangely enough , the film's director , andr ? de toth , lost the sight of one eye and therefore couldn't appreciate the effects of 3-d since he had no depth perception . this is also the film where vincent price made his mark as a villain figure in horror films and was typecast forever in that role . he wanted to make the museum more commercial by displaying a chamber of horrors , but jarrod is only interested in creating real-life beauty from historical figures such as marie antoinette and joan of arc . it was a decent enough horror film , as seen in this cable tv version of regular 2-d , but it lacked more sparks to it . it seemed to languor at points of its story , and its grand guignol characterization was too often wasted by touristy tours of the museum . they were interesting , but didn't add much to the story . all the creepiness comes from price and igor . 
2	he's downright filthy . played wonderfully against type by denzel washington , alonzo is the role that could win washington ( the hurricane and malcolm x ) his long deserved best actor oscar to go along with his supporting actor oscar for glory . you may find yourself feeling almost uneasy given how much you enjoy watching his character . you want to loathe him , and you do , but washington gives alonzo a disturbingly appealing side . this strongly violent film never pulls its punches . hoyt enters the day nervous that he won't be found worthy of being a narc and ends it nervous that he won't see the sunrise . in between is one terrific motion picture , albeit a depressingly engrossing one . hoyt doesn't know quite what to make of alonzo and constantly seems confused as to what is happening . alonzo makes it almost plausible that smoking dope is important training . " are you a wolf or a sheep . " but alonzo isn't just any wolf . it's all very disorienting . interlaced with these close-ups are slow-motion shots that give the audience a constant feeling of dread . although the conclusion is satisfying , it's too over the top and too long . if the last act were up to the quality of the rest of the movie , we might legitimately hear this film being talked about in the same breath as l . a . confidential and hear oscar buzz for it . instead , expect to see just washington's name in the oscar lineup . it is rated r for " brutal violence , pervasive language , drug content and brief nudity " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
0	cast : tim robbins , martin lawrence , john c . mcginley , giancarlo esposito , kelly preston , michael mckean director : steve oedekerk producers : martin bregman , dan jinks , and michael bregman screenplay : steve oedekerk cinematography : donald e . thorin music : robert folk u . s . distributor : touchstone pictures the " moronic comedy " ( a movie where people commit stupid acts with little regard for things like logic and credibility ) is a motion picture staple , dating back to the silent era . once , film makers invested a great deal of creativity into these projects , but , these days , almost every entry into the genre is routine , formulaic , and of limited entertainment value . as a result , watching films like nothing to lose can be tedious . the movie offers a few legitimate laughs , but there's not enough quality or quantity to support a ninety-minute production . in between the widely-spaced , effective gags , we're treated to a mind- numbingly contrived script , inane dialogue , and flat characters . what follows is a variation on the standard , tired buddy movie concept , with a few car chases , shootouts , and mistaken identity subplots thrown in for good measure . had oedekerk settled for a straight , mindless farce , things might have turned out okay . that's right -- social commentary in a movie that's as airheaded as they come . that statement may be accurate , but the writer/director chooses a poor arena in which to argue it . additionally , attempts to humanize nick and terrence fail as we're force-fed character-building moments that don't work on any level . tim robbins is better than the material . it's to his credit that he's somehow able to generate sympathy for such a one-dimensional character . it's an act that gets old quickly . after films like boomerang , bad boys , and a thin line between love and hate , lawrence has become overexposed ( and i'm not even considering his recently-canceled tv series , which i haven't seen ) . moments of inspired comedy are few and far between . beyond that , the film offers the usual array of unfunny , repetitive attempts at humor . nothing to lose isn't so bad that it can be singled out as one of the worst movies of the summer , but there's nothing about this film to distinguish it from the many other sub- mediocre non-entities currently in theaters . 
2	everyone [in vietnam] knew the gestures associated with the preparation of the papaya and , since the houses weren't soundproofed , you often heard it being prepared in the house next door . you knew the sound because the papaya is hollow and when you hit it ( with a knife ) , it makes a very characteristic noise . relying more on tone and feel , the scent of green papaya manages to engross an audience because of its scrupulous attention to detail and its ability to effectively capture the essence of life's subtle , individual moments . to say that the scent of green papaya has no plot would be to grossly misrepresent it . the movie is divided into two sections . midway through the film , the time frame shifts ahead a decade . the scent of green papaya succeeds because writer/director tran anh hung has an almost-perfect sense of what is necessary to make a simple story work . there are no grand revelations or surprising plot twists , but the film is compelling nevertheless , precisely because of its sense of reality . what other recent film has made the act of giving a cooking lesson such a potentially-intriguing activity ? the effectiveness of the scent of green papaya is surprising considering its visual limits . filmed on france sound stages rather than on-location in vietnam , there is none of the expected lush vegetation one has come to expect from a film set in this country . even the papaya trees are dead husks with real fruit and leaves glued to them ( although it's not possible to tell this from watching the movie ) . on the other hand , the use of sound effects is excellent , from the chirping of a cricket to the roar of a plane overhead . in a film with so little dialogue ( there is a space of thirty minutes where only several lines are uttered ) , music and sound effects become critical contributors . the acting is adequate--no more and no less , but because the scent of green papaya focuses more on moments than characters , this isn't a serious detriment . lu man san , as mui at ten years old , is cute and impish , with a commendable variety of facial expressions . her successor , tran nu yen-khe ( the director's real-life fiancee ) isn't as impressive . she smiles too much and possesses an almost-sinuously graceful body language that seems inappropriate to the circumstances . what the scent of green papaya does so well is to show the everyday life of a culture that has been bombed into history . this is the kind of motion picture that could easily become tedious and boring , because so little happens . to manage what tran anh hung has by telling his story and holding the interest of the audience , deserves notice and credit . the scent of green papaya is an enjoyable experience made all the more enchanting by its simplicity . 
0	you can watch this movie , that is based on a sci-fi work by robert heinlein , either as a straight gung-ho war film , or you can see it mostly as a spoof . anyway you watch it won't require too much gray matter from your brain cells , because you will either find this film entertaining and a feast for weary eyes , or you might , like me , " think " that this film is so bad that it really couldn't be this bad , i must be missing something . but i have come to the conclusion that this insipid b- movie , is that bad , despite the high production costs it took to make it . if there are any good parts to this film , it might be in the occasional sardonic one liner , such as this one , that makes light of the film's heavy assault on our sensibilities , as one soldier is telling the hero of the story , " you're good at killing bugs . " basically , the film should be seen as a war movie , because its spoof of the military , grew thin very fast for me , as it got carried away with the cartoon characters it has stereotyped , going for an overkill on a spoof that is so obvious in the first place , that by spending so much time with spoofing the military , is just plain unnecessary . i guess the film is set in the future , but it sure looks like the present to me despite all the computer graphics , as it makes use of its astronomical budget to become solely a computerized special effect movie , that should endear itself to the mtv generation . after awhile , all the performers looked alike to me , but i wouldn't be doing my duty as a movie reviewer , if i should fail to point out that there is some kind of melodramatic love story going down among the four stars of the film , rico ( casper van dien ) , the school football hero , loves carmen ( denise richards ) , the school beauty and math brain , who is set on becoming a pilot , which is the reason rico joins the military . i don't think you get much bang for your money out of this film , unless you are really into special effects or found this sophomoric satire funny or you are a reactionary , then i think you will find many things to like about this empty hearted attempt to put ww11 into an outer space conflagration film . 
0	anyone following the behind-the-scenes history of even cowgirls get the blues knew that the film was in trouble long before its release . it didn't work . even cowgirls is as close to an unwatchable film as there is available at this time in the theaters . perhaps i might be more sympathetic had i read tom robbins' 1976 book - the " first hippie novel " , as van sant calls it - but i haven't , so i'll leave the comparisons to someone else . whether or not this is the 90s version of bonfire of the vanities remains to be seen , although cinematically , it's certainly on the same level . this provokes an armed federal response , and one of the most laughably idiotic denouements in recent film history . even if the plot made sense ( which it really doesn't ) and wasn't unbelievably contrived ( which it is ) , even cowgirls is difficult to follow because of its disjointed nature . whether this is a result of poor editing , confused writing , or ( most likely ) a combination of the two , the result is obvious - a chaotic motion picture that never finds its focus and is agonizing to sit through . sissy , the main character , is bland , although through no fault of uma thurman , whose performance is reasonably restrained in the midst of a festival of scenery-chomping . the problem with sissy is that van sant never forges a connection between her and the audience . there is no emotional link , and the viewer isn't likely to care any more about her at the end than at the beginning . with the notable exception of that given by thurman , the performances are awful . lorraine bracco ( who i don't consider to be a good actor ) and john hurt ( who i do ) go so far over the top that you wonder if they'll ever reach bottom . the dialogue , especially the tom robbins-supplied voiceovers , is grating . there's too much pretension and posturing here , and a typical conversation consists of characters trying to one-up each other in the number of meaningless profundities they can spew out . this is probably supposed to make the viewer ponder ; amidst all the other garbage that comprises even cowgirls , it just made me reel . the themes presented by the movie - feminism and the rights of the individual - have a heavy 70s flavor that van sant has done nothing to update . in a rare case of getting something right , at least even cowgirls gives a natural , non-exploitative view of lesbian love . then there are sissy's thumbs . every time sissy sticks out these monstrosities to hitch a ride , the viewer's eyes are glued to them - not because of some inner desire to gape at the deformity , but because they look so fake . further rumination on even cowgirls is probably as pointless as the film itself . the only possible reason to see it is to experience firsthand how badly a moderately-budgeted art film can go wrong . in some sense , it's hard to believe that this much talent can produce something so worthless . that's enough to give anyone the blues . 
2	directors : kirk wise and gary trousdale . as i sat in my car twenty minutes after the conclusion of the hunchback of notre dame , tears still welling up in my eyes , i though about what made me respond to disney's recent animated hits , even flawed efforts like pocahontas . it was not simply animation to which i was responding , since animated films like balto had left me unmoved , and i like to believe that disney's ubiquitous marketing had no influence . i thought about the moments in films like beauty and the beast and the little mermaid which had filled me with the pure joy of film artistry , and i realized the connection : music . the hunchback of notre dame is dark , enchanting , visually spectacular and richer in thematic depth than 99% of the live action films i see , but i know that it was the power of grand opera which pushed me over the edge . there is no question that computer technology is allowing disney animators an ever-increasing freedom , and the opportunity to create some astonishing images . there are scenes involving thousands of " extras " which are simply extraordinary , and a swooping shot as quasimodo comes to esmeralda's rescue which is breath-taking . still , the conventional character animation might be even better . it seems almost unfair to single out one star , but i will : kathy zielinski , the character supervisor for frollo . she has designed one of disney's most complicated villains ever , a tormented and hateful zealot with a mouth so cruel and subtly expressive that he makes you want to shudder every time he smiles . with superb voice work by tony jay , frollo becomes a brilliant characterization . if an animator ever deserved credit for a best supporting actor performance , this might be the case . frollo's tortured soul ( revealed in a creepy and very un-disney-like song called " hellfire " ) is just one of many rather adult subjects which gives hunchback a surprising resonance . quasimodo's cowering respect for frollo is heart-breaking , rendered poignantly by tom hulce . there is certainly a fair amount of comic relief , mostly provided by the gargoyles and the lively number " a guy like you , " but if hunchback is at all a film for children , it is one which exposes them to issues their parents should be prepared to discuss . the messages in hunchback are powerful , and they are skillfully handled , but there is something that happens when they are set to music . the songs by alan menken and steven schwartz are not particularly memorable by disney standards , nothing you will be humming for days afterwards like " be our guest " or " under the sea , " but they are evocative . a heartfelt sentiment which is sung rather than spoken draws its emotion from a different place . hollywood seems to believe that no one wants to see a musical in 1996 , and that disney's films are aberrations because they are animated . i'm not convinced that the real issue isn't choice of material . disney selects timeless tales , and a timeless tale in song is a powerful thing . there are certainly more than a few similarities between the hunchback of notre dame and beauty and the beast ( also directed by kirk wise and gary trousdale ) ; if it had been live action , i'd have sworn that they re-used some of the same sets in the opening number . beauty and the beast is a better film , a classic , and yet there i was , twenty minutes after the conclusion of hunchback , tears still welling up in my eyes , emotionally invested in the life of an animated character . and though the songs may not have been on my lips , i know they were in my heart . 
2	you've played the video game , now see the movie . by that measure , the opening to 1995's goldeneye does not disappoint . this stunt pushes any sane rules of credibility , but bond films don't exist in a world of euclidean geometry , having instead their own set of axioms . ( every time i review a bond movie , i get a slew of letters explaining how the actor playing bond is universally recognized as the best bond ever and another batch claiming the actor is widely accepted as the worst bond imaginable . many of bond's fans seem to be under the delusion that all agree . ) brosnan is tough , confident and sexy as bond . he does not try to mimic any of the previous bond actors , but establishes his own interpretation of the role . several notable members of one of the strongest and most intelligent supporting casts of any bond movie include judi dench from her majesty , mrs . its most powerful gadget is a pair of stinger missiles in the headlights . don't mess with this car , or you'll be toast as fast as bond can find the right button . and what vehicle is better to crush the opposition that a big tank with humongous treads ? it is rated pg-13 for a number of sequences of action violence and for some sexuality and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , said it was almost his favorite bond movie but that he was sad that one of his favorite characters died in it . he thought brosnan was a really good 007 . 
1	screenplay : david swift and nancy meyers & charles shyer , based on " das doppelte lottchen " by erich kastner . director : nancy meyers . mpaa rating : pg ( mild profanity ) running time : 125 minutes . there are probably equal reasons to fear for the worst and hope for the best in considering a remake of disney's 1961 film the parent trap . on the one hand , you have disney's recent track record plundering its own vaults for tiresome , frantic " updates " like 101 dalmatians , that darn cat and flubber . which would rule : 1990s disney scatalogy-mongering , or shyer/meyers restraint and family appeal ? it's a pleasure to report that the 1998 model of the parent trap offers far more of the latter than the former , though it's far from an unqualified success . what's most right about the parent trap is that it avoids what has been most wrong about other recent disney remakes . from the opening credits sequence , which depicts nick and elizabeth's whirlwind marriage to the tune of nat king cole's " l-o-v-e , " the parent trap seems to have a modicum of class and an interest in telling a story without explosions or flatulence . there are some high-spirited pranks as the girls compete at camp , and a bit of slapstick during a camping trip , but mostly it's just a pleasant , amusing diversion that could have been made 30 years ago like the original . a high-concept premise rarely feels this low-concept . the one thing it couldn't have had thirty years ago is 11-year-old lindsay lohan , the film's captivating star . child actors are trouble enough , and child actors in their first feature film even more so , but lohan's good-natured sweetness is infectious . she even adopts a quite serviceable english accent which should make more veteran actors ( are you listening , kevin costner ) hang their heads in shame . lohan is just part of a solid cast , including hendrix as a juicy villainess and lisa ann walter as nick's acerbic housekeeper , which gives the story plenty of humor and warmth . and it's a nice touch to see joanna barnes , reprising her character from the original parent trap in the appropriate role of meredith's mother . as is the case with most remakes , it's tough to argue that the parent trap was crying out for a contemporary re-telling . this version brings nothing revolutionary to the table , drags through some sluggish spots in its two hour running time , and never really builds much chemistry between quaid and richardson . most disappointing is the climactic camping trip where the twins torment the hapless city girl meredith ; the sequence is too short , the editing too choppy , and the resolution far too abrupt . the parent trap is basically the kind of film usually described with a dismissive word like " cute , " which is certainly accurate enough . " cute " films are becoming harder and harder to find , however , and this one keeps things light enough to sidestep any of shyer and meyers' more saccharine impulses . every once in a while , uncomplicated and inoffensive fun feels just right . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	joel schumacher's modestly budgeted , gritty looking war melodrama had nothing relevant to say , only saying things that have been said in countless other vietnam war films . the clich ? d hero and the formulaic story never caught my fancy , no matter how much the director tried to make things happen . it's in the style of the first half of full metal jacket , but without the same impact . it's the tale of a soldier who won't conform to the army and by the film's end proves he's not a bad guy and can also be an excellent soldier if he wants to . there were just no surprises forthcoming , as the film seemed to be marking time until it shows him as a leader and proves himself heroic . i think that schumacher thinks because he has no stars and shot this one in a grainy 16-millimeter with a jumpy hand-held camera and with mostly natural light in dogme style , that he caught something cinema v ? rit ? . what goes with schumacher wherever , is a lot of corn . this film is just as weak in storyline as was his big commercial flick batman . what this film has going for it , is some good shots of the swampland in fort polk , louisiana , and some good performances . the movie moves along as if it were on a forced march to hanoi . there's also some liberal claptrap thrown into the storyline , which is unconvincingly done about a racist sociopath . the film heads toward its less than 'big bang' finale in tigerland with the same forced messages about war that could not only chase sluts out of a hotel room but drive film critics to the theater's popcorn vender rather than sit through this torture in its entirety . the director must receive credit for at least getting together a good cast , though i would have loved to see this one with a ed wood jr . cast . 
1	producers : doug chapin and barry krost . director : joe mantello . mpaa rating : r ( nudity , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 115 minutes . in one sense , the premise for love ! valour ! compassion ! is sheer brilliance . the real inspiration comes not with the characters , however , but with the setting . by placing these characters in a world of their own , without a single heterosexual character around to define them by their " otherness , " mcnally allows us to focus on the problems of these people as human beings . in this place , they're just ordinary folks . the thing about ordinary folks is that they're not always particularly interesting . as sensitively written and well-acted as it may be , love ! valour ! compassion ! is terribly short on conflict . whenever mcnally does try to insert some conflict , it feels forced and inconsequential . valour ! compassion ! is spiced up by the presence of most bare male flesh ever seen in a movie not starring harvey keitel . the rest of the time , the characters sit around talking and supporting each other , waxing philosophical about love , romance , social politics and mortality until the film starts to feel very much like a gay big chill . whether that comparison intrigues you or makes you cringe may go a long way toward predicting your response to this film . the most affecting moments in love ! valour ! compassion ! both actors give solid , multi-faceted performances , bringing humor and delight to the connection between two people who have assumed that it's too late for them to experience love . all of the emotion in the film feels genuine , developed with care by a group of actors who , with the exception of alexander , originated the roles on broadway . it is a warm and appealing piece of film-making by first-time feature director joe mantello ( also an alum of the stage production ) , but that warmth is not enough to make it exceptional . it's not really a narrative so much as it is an idyll , a chance to watch normal people living normal lives in a pastoral setting . 
1	a stunningly original film , but one that is hardly plausible . yes . it is entertaining to a certain degree . the terror seemed more theatrical than real inner angst , which took away from the film's tense scenes . the film's theme , a recurring one in filmmaker cronenberg's repertoire -- of an unhappy body in a palace revolt -- suggests in no uncertain terms that dreams can kill . . . and that anger if unchecked is something that takes its toll on the individual and on others . this transference method is called " psychoplasmics . " the story proceeds on an erratic course of mixing gore and shock with cerebral challenges , never establishing which one it is more commmitted to , as the story moves too far adrift to maintain a credible suspense . instead it relies on the intense performance of oliver reed , as the so-called genius experimenter who lost track of right and wrong , to pull you into the politics of what the film is saying about ethical medicine and the implications it has for the patients and society . i say . . . there's it's a film that could easily be viewed as being about a bad marriage and an even uglier separation , in other words a domestic drama with the trappings of a horror film . while throwing out a lot of nauseating sights and many themes , the film failed to hold together to make this a solid effort , but if viewed for its parts rather than its sum , it had some very strong scenes of relating one's body problems to the constraints of the mind . in any case , it's more cerebral than the usual special-effect horror film and is worth seeing for its uniqueness . 
2	screenplay : kevin williamson . director : wes craven . mpaa rating : r ( violence , adult themes , profanity ) running time : 105 minutes . in the late 70s and early 80s , theater screens were overrun by a film genre which had primarily teenage audiences filling the seats and sociologists shaking their heads . it was the golden age -- if that isn't a gross misapplication of the term -- of the slasher movie , where cutlery-wielding crazies turned every possible day on the calendar ( halloween , friday the 13th , prom night , mother's day , my bloody valentine ) into a stomach-churning ordeal . these films usually differed only in the manner of the violent killings , leading to a numbing predictability deserving only of parody . wes craven's scream wants to have some fun with the conventions of the slasher movie , but not at the expense of providing a few scares of its own . that presents problems as well as opportunities , as the self-aware script sometimes diffuses the tension craven can create as a director . in scream , the students at woodsboro high are facing more profound problems than the usual homework and bad skin . as scream begins , it looks like it is going to be a fairly conventional horror film , if an unusually gripping one . most of the familiar tropes of the slasher movie are in place -- the absentee parents , the improbably massive house with plenty of glass , the ever-alarming ringing phone -- but the sequence is still scary stuff , with barrymore providing an effective and convincing portrait of mounting panic . though much of scream becomes a joke at the expense of monotonously violent horror films , craven is not about to spit in the face of the genre which made his career . horror films in general are not the target in scream -- horror films with no style or imagination are , and craven provides both throughout the film , though nowhere as effectively as the opening . what happens between the scares is what gives scream its knowing edge . kevin williamson's script is loaded with references to horror films -- it seems that half a dozen are aimed at craven alone -- and loaded with characters who have seen other horror films . many of those references are spelled out quite literally , and they are the least interesting . some of the most subversive humor is the least obvious , however . scream plays with expectations effectively , making the guessing game part of the in-joke . the guessing ends in a climax which , while certainly surprising , isn't particularly effective . it is also excessively drawn out , as writer and director seem to engage in an ideological battle over whether it is going to be the climax to a horror film or a commentary on the climaxes of horror films . in the end it is both , which is to say that it is neither . some of the gags are quite funny , but the suspense all but vanishes in the final fifteen minutes as the characters talk their way through a comparison of this finale to the traditional finale . the script for scream is not clever enough to provide a consistently witty thriller ; it is sometimes witty and sometimes thrilling , but never both . that alone makes scream stand out from its genre cousins , though , as wes craven reminds us that terror can be fun , and not simply a grueling march through gore-spattered holidays . 
1	starring : dustin hoffman , rene russo , morgan freeman , cuba gooding jr . , kevin spacey , donald sutherland . screenplay : laurence dworet and robert roy pool . director : wolfgang petersen . you've got to love it when hollywood producers find themselves scrambling to be the first out of the blocks with an idea . though its conventional action climax doesn't fulfill the promise of a gripping first hour , it's still a satisfying popcorn thriller . the first half of outbreak , which actually deals with the spread of the disease , is as tense an hour as i have spent at the movies in a long time . director wolfgang petersen makes some great decisions filming scenes like a tour through the army's medical facility , which moves ominously from labs studying relatively benign viruses to those studying the bad boys . there is also a wickedly funny moment when an infected man sneezes in a movie theater , and we watch particles flying through the air into other people's mouths . what eventually becomes clear is that petersen's direction is orders of magnitude better than the script from which he is working . the attempts at humor are frequently limp , the performances ( except those by space and gooding ) perfunctory and the characters of the standard , one-dimensional action film variety . and those aren't the only elements that warrant comparison to standard action films , as the conclusion becomes not a down-to-the-wire hunt for a cure in the lab , but a down-to-the-wire helicopter chase , or rather several down-to-the-wire helicopter chases . the sequences are exciting and well-filmed , but they don't belong in this movie any more than a u-boat battle would have belonged in schindler's list . i have a personal beef with outbreak as well , namely that it relies so much on government conspiracy theories . the prospect of a deadly disease wreaking havoc is powerful enough without resorting to paranoia-mongering , and i have yet to see much evidence that any really big secret can be kept in the talk show age , let alone for thirty years as is the case in outbreak . frankly , it's sloppy plotting , and indicative of outbreak's roots as part of a race to be first rather than best . for one hour , outbreak keeps the tension high , but petersen could have done much more with a script just a re-write or two more polished . 
0	let me answer the question that is on the mind of every viewer who has seen writer/director rand ravich's the astronaut's wife : is the movie really in slow motion as it appears ? no . but , the zombie-like movements so carefully mastered by the story's leads , johnny depp and charlize theron , make it seem that the projectionist is running the movie at one-quarter speed . the story , which essentially reveals almost everything from the beginning , makes it obvious that aliens have visited him during this communication blackout . the scene itself somehow shifts in mid-thrust to their bedroom . the story is rife with many such illogical and implausible happenings . at least the party does provide an opportunity for some much needed humor in a movie that , given the hackneyed quality of the material , takes itself way too seriously . " i used to be into aids , " one emaciated socialite tells jillian . shot in shadows with heavy tones of dark wood paneling and deep blues , the film tries its best to look convincing . the script certainly needs all of the help it can get . the film , which is as inert as outer space , uses choral music full of over-the-top creepiness to supply most of the fright factor . johnny depp , in one of his lesser performances , still manages to be the only even partially satisfying aspect to the movie . jillian's hairdo ? short like mia farrow's . you know , like in rosemary's baby . cute , huh ? you don't need any more clues . it is rated r for violence , language and a strong scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
2	tammy faye bakker , " the first lady of christian broadcasting , " was at the center of the biggest real-life soap opera of the 1980s . the documentary argues convincingly that the only sin of tammy faye , a likeable little dynamo , is her unquestioning naivet ? . the villain of the piece turns out to be jerry falwell . whether this represents the ultimate truth or not may never be known , but the documentary offers compelling evidence to support its case . all of the above notwithstanding , the reason to see the movie is to meet a fascinating and resourceful woman with a very interesting background . although the title refers to tammy's signature heavy eye make-up , it could be titled the eyes of the viewers since your eyes will be glued to the screen in this intriguing tale . in an age in which reality programming is popular , this movie would seem to have arrived at just the right moment in time . forget daytime soaps , none could be better than this movie . these humorous puppets are appropriate since jim and tammy's first television show was a christian broadcast done howdy doody style . the remarkably good-spirited documentary offers up lots of opportunities to laugh but none are at tammy faye's expense . the internecine warfare among the leaders of the christian broadcasting community is shown to be much more vicious than outsiders would ever imagine . an unabashed believer in the importance of happiness in worship ( " we believe that we were one of the first people to put fun and joy in religion . " ) , if he isn't shown to be quite as likeable as tammy faye , jim still comes across as an ambitious man with a good heart who made some mistakes . in short , he just appears human , and high profile political figures guilty of much more than he have thrived . most of all , tammy faye is a survivor . jim j . bullock , a gay comedian and , at one time , tammy's television talk-show host , says it best about tammy faye's skills . it is rated pg-13 for some sexual content and would be acceptable for any kids old enough to be interested in the material . 
1	cast : alicia silverstone , paul rudd , stacey dash , brittany murphy , dan hedaya , wallace shawn , twink kaplan director : amy heckerling producers : scott rudin and robert lawrence screenplay : amy heckerling cinematography : bill pope music : david kitay u . s . distributor : paramount pictures as appealing as alicia silverstone is ( and she possesses that ethereal " star quality " which is sadly lacking in many of today's up- and-coming performers ) , her presence can't rescue this aptly-titled movie . part pop satire and part teen comedy , clueless shows its unevenness early , runs out of steam about midway through , then sputters to a conclusion that takes an eternity to arrive at . like the brady bunch movie , this film contains some amusing moments , but not enough to justify a feature-length running time . charm this thin doesn't take long to wear off . cher loves to talk , as is amply demonstrated by a series of endless voice-overs that occur throughout the film . essentially , nothing much happens -- the film is an excuse to plunge into the life of a caricature that silverstone makes more appealing than one might reasonably expect . much of the humor is sophomoric . moments of inventive comedy ( such as an unexpected ride on the freeway ) are far between . writer/director amy heckerling creates a tone so light that it borders on vapid . on the other hand , some of the dialogue is clever , and there are a few memorable lines . overall , though , that's all clueless amounts to : a group of modestly amusing , satirical vignettes tied together by one-liners . the picture doesn't offer any big laughs , and there's never any character identification -- heckerling's fast times at ridgemont high , a top-level teen picture , worked in large part because the protagonists seemed real . in that case , cameron crowe's script aimed for fun and feeling . here , the latter is sacrificed for the former , and the result doesn't leave much of an impression . in part because the film is so inoffensive ( no sex , nudity , or violence ) , it has no edge . clueless is the cinematic equivalent of cotton candy : certainly not unpleasant , but unsatisfying despite the sweet taste . 
1	it is a most relaxed and enjoyable look at the neurotic comic , who appears to be no different than he is in his films . but what is vividly shown , is how exhilerated he gets from playing the clarinet and how wonderfully morbid he is about everything he does , from eating a vulcanized spanish omelet in spain to getting seasick on a gondola in venice . you can't help but realize that this is really woody , it is not a put on , and you either love him or shy away from him . some of the snippets from the numbers he played included the joyous songs like " down by the riverside " and " home sweet home . " if there is any criticism for the film , it could be noted that we didn't hear enough of the band playing . there are good vibes there , as they all seem to be on the same page . what might be surprising to a lot of people , is how good the band actually is and how much fun they seem to have playing together . that he receives an engraved plaque for this , encourages woody to joke about how it comes easy for him to be a hero . woody comments that he is always wants to be somewhere he isn't , if he is in milan , he wants to be in new york , if he is in new york , he might want to be in paris . 
1	1994's the yearling uses exaggerated hillbilly accents that probably worked in the 1946 original , but in the new version they seem like put-ons . the story contains all of the elements of an old fashioned backwoods tale . amazingly , although the deer is clearly the best part of the movie , she appears very little . the picture uses lush cinematography and natural disasters to show off the family's hardships . unfortunately the story , a relatively disconnected series of incidents none of which are particularly compelling , works only in brief spurts . not a happy lot , the people fret over something in the majority of the scenes , what with wild animals , bad weather , poverty , death , hunger , etc . you almost want to shout at them to lighten up a little , surely they have some things to be thankful for . their neighbors are cliches of simple folk . the poorly drawn and exaggerated characters drink whiskey from jugs , have iqs way south of 100 , and look like they haven't bathed in a month of sundays -- make that twelve months . i haven't seen the original since childhood so i cannot be sure that it is better , but i expect it must be . the movie only comes into its own in its manipulative but effective tearjerker ending . it is rated pg , but should have been pg-13 , for violence , blood and death and would be appropriate for kids about nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the film was only " pretty good . " he complained that it had too much crying and too much blood and frequently did not make sense . he said he has seen a lot better movies and gives this one only a marginal recommendation . he did like all of animals in it . 
1	when i look at the deep south , the first thing that comes to my mind is their history of racial problems . what altman has done , is paint a picture of the town , full of local flavor , trying to test us to see if we guessed right at what our first impressions of the locals was , as those of us who have not kept up with the changes in the south or have not been brought up there , might view things from an outdated way of seeing the new south , thinking the worst of them , but now surprised to find that the only thing that has not changed about our perceptions of the south , is how dull witted some of them can still be . altman's other aims are to uncover all the town's little nasty secrets that is so easily hidden by its southern hospitality and history of racism . though , the tone of altman's film is always light and never very haunting . this is one of his mild films , he doesn't penetrate deeper than the story itself takes us , even if it is tightly directed , with no visible flaws in the storyline and the film's purpose , everything about it turns out to be as pleasing as the smell of magnolias in the spring , and thereby we are cheated into seeing something that could have been most revealing , instead we are offered something that is really too bland and simplistic for its own good , even if it is a satisfying film , it is still most easily categorized into the " feel good " type of mold , something altman might have winced at in his heyday of filmmaking in the 70s . what is comical or tragic , depending on what kind of a sense of humor you have , is watching how the crime scene is being trampled on , and the murder investigation done in such an amateurish way , that the investigators of the little jon benet ramsey murder in boulder , colorado , would look like scotland yard investigators in comparison to this sheriff's department . their romance is a series of lustful encounters , that is mostly comical , as it adds to the story , by giving it a more local flavoring . now this is as far a cry from the old mississippi , as one can imagine , though there are still some lingering subtle racial prejudices around . which , i guess , could best be understood as a very logical statement by those who were brought up in a small-town . the film ends on cora's spiteful comment to her sister , as she sticks to the story her controlling sister gave her , that it wasn't a suicide , as she triumphantly exclaims , " i did good , didn't i ? " the film's decency shines through all the past racial injustices , and maybe things are getting better in the south , at least that is the message we are left with , and i see no reason to be of a different opinion . but that last framed shot of the sheriff and emma and the lawyer and willis sitting on the dock fishing was a little too rosy a picture for me to take in all at once . race relations might be the biggest problem americans are still faced with , and finding a cordial way out of it is the aim of a lot of good folks . the weakness of this film , is that its over-all decency is not moving enough of an experience to make this anything but a mildly entertaining film , that captured a little something about the south's past and future , and made us feel a little better that we saw it , but did not set off any bigger sparks , or really create any excitement about the town or its inhabitants that is worth taking note of . 
1	of all things made into a film , calligraphy is one subject that few movies have used as their subject , but greenaway , true to his reputation as a filmmaker with an outrageous streak in him to live up to , continues to make outlandish films that have a certain perversity to them , as well as show an elegance in clever filmmaking . pillow book is an individual's diary of observations and a presentment of an interesting list of things the diarist has jotted down , such as duck eggs and a silver bowl filled with shaved ice . the plot turns surprising simple , as revenge becomes the motive for nagiko , and this offbeat film will remain interesting mostly through its striking visualizations . the stunning visualizations range from ones of comedy to ones of sensuality to ones of gross cruely . her sensuality is seen in most of the books she writes , but seems special when she is with jerome , as frontal nudity is there , to be examined from all different angles by a technically efficient camera , that handles these nude scenes as casually as if the actors were fully dressed . the fun in the film is in the silliness of the story's subject matter as juxtaposed against the solemnity of the books being written on skin , with either somber religious chants or the same pop tune being played over and over in the background . she is really the only one in the film that we see developing and the only one whom we come to understand what she is trying to do . there seems to be a determined effort to be witty , even if the humor is not scaled to what the story is saying . the result of this work is a film that is startling to behold , with gorgeous photogenic shots , superimpositions , amazing computer graphics , a splash of intriguing gold and red color patterns , with everything ending up so perverse and lost in an intimacy that seems so melodramatic that even the scenes that do mean something to the characters still seem to be too absurd to really mean much . but the film did have plenty of fire to it , hatred , passion , jealousy , and mystery . i just didn't find that the story was that emotionally engaging to win me over completely to what i was seeing , even if i found the film had much to show for its effort . but for those who like to see the unusual and something that is artistic , this film is both unique and unforgettable : it's pure greenaway . 
1	" we're gonna be too big for hamburg . we're gonna be too big for liverpool . we're gonna be too big for our own bloody good . " oliver stone probably loves this film . not only is backbeat a story from " his " era , the early sixties , but it bears more than a passing resemblance to one of his own pictures , the doors ( although it should be noted that backbeat moves a lot faster ) . if nothing else , however , stone usually gets his characters right , but the failure to create a compelling protagonist is this movie's greatest flaw . i would have enjoyed backbeat more if i had begun to feel something for any of the men or women populating this tale . however , since director iain softley seems more interested in establishing tone and atmosphere than in creating vibrant personalities , he is unable to harness the full power of his story . in fact , the script itself is not tightly-focused , although the lack of a strong lead character could in part be responsible for this . while backbeat does , to some extent , fulfill both of these goals , it does neither to full advantage . when the film works , it's because the two purposes complement each other ; when it fails , it's because they are at odds . mr . softley uses an almost-documentary style of filmmaking , complete with unusual camera angles and often-dark settings , to bring home the immediacy of his motion picture . this is successful more often than not , but it could be argued that this method aids in further distancing the characters from the audience . music--rock 'n roll in particular--saturates backbeat . it has the most thunderous soundtrack since that of the commitments and , if marketed right , will sell tons of cds and tapes . nevertheless , all the visual and audio flare--and the tremendous energy that goes with them--can't quite make up for those elements where the film is found lacking . what makes it even more surprising that the characters have such little magnetism is that , for the most part , the actors portraying them do excellent jobs . other than having a somewhat variable accent , stephen dorff is fine as stu sutcliffe and , excepting a single over-the-top scene , twin peaks sheryl lee does a credible job playing astrid . ian hart gives an amazingly energetic and powerful rendering of john lennon . movies like backbeat are often the most difficult for me to review . i recognize the craft used in making the film , i admire the intent , and i like the music . the problem is , the characters don't grab me , and the story meanders a little too much to limit the importance of these minimalist personalities . many will doubtless feel differently , especially those with a special interest in the early days of the fab four . it's too bad this film didn't do as good a job capturing the other elements surrounding the group as they did those two aspects . 
0	there have been very few films about the american revolution and most of them have been terrible , with the exception of d . w . at least , they kept it moving at a brisk pace , but , unfortunately , they used a good deal of violence . there were a multitude of choreographed battle scenes , face-to-face combat scenes , and sweeping panoramic shots of the beautiful countryside , which should take your mind off all the empty messages of the film . the filmmaker even made slavery appear as not such a bad thing by having the slaves seem more like workers than slaves , they just seemed to be having themselves a good old time on the plantation . when the 158-minutes are up , you might not have much of an historical perspective of the war , but you should feel good that the arch villain got his just desserts . the colonel's villain role is about as one-dimensional and predictable as it gets for such a villain , whereby he becomes more cartoonish and less menacing as the story rolls on . and there you have the plot , which is not much on history and not much on character development . everything is so predictable about this glossy photographed film , everything is so banal , everything seems so dishonest , and the dialogue is so disparaging , that i found this to be such a morbid attempt at history , such a futile way to tell a story . everything from the acting and the script was flat . everyone was reduced to a cardboard figure , and the war seemed to be a manufactured one , as if this film was made as a tv episode . the story lacked vitality , only scoring points for its fine costumes and john williams musical score . the film always seemed to be an unhealthy mixture of mawkishness and carnality , offering nothing but shallow responses for all its preaching about freedom . only this film comes with some bogus history lesson thrown in , which makes it more shamefully exploitive , a " payback " with the redcoats as the gangsters . i had an ugly feeling when i left the theater , like someone was trying awfully hard to sell me on patriotism : using children , the flag , a horrid villain , all to shamelessly stir me up , instead of telling me a story about a credible character who got involved in the war for independence . 
1	date released : 6/18/93 running length : 2 : 10 rated : pg-13 ( violence ) there's a long story that goes with this , the gist of which is that the ticket purportedly has the ability to transport its user to other worlds , but it has a " mind of its own " . danny is no longer watching the movie--he's in it . the critics have panned last action hero and , given my propensity for blasting anything that bills arnold schwarzenegger as its main attraction , one might assume that i didn't enjoy it either . not so . while last action hero certainly isn't the banner movie of the summer , it's not nearly as horrible as most of the radio/tv/print reviewers would like you to believe . admittedly , this is not a good action film . given its billing , director , and title , that's a surprise . on the other hand , last action hero works as an unexpectedly witty comedy . in fact , i found this movie to be more amusing ( not to mention more watchable ) than schwarzenegger's two openly billed comic entries , twins and kindergarten cop . the humor ranges from that staple of the action genre--bad puns--to some pretty incisive satire . even though this next assertion is going to cause a lot of people to cringe , i'll make it anyway . i can find a number of similarities between last action hero and ( believe it or not ) robert altman's the player . no , this isn't nearly as nasty or intelligent a picture as the spring 1992 release , but both movies have a lot of fun blasting hollywood genre films . arnold's production may be more good-natured about it ( after all , he's made his name and most of his fortune out of these kind of popcorn-and-soda movies ) , but there's no mistaking the intent . there's hardly a plot device of the action film that goes without some kind of dig . the car chase , the shoot-out , the exploding vehicles and houses , the death-defying jumps , the triumph over impossible odds , the last-second escape--all of these , and more , get lampooned in last action hero . on the other hand , there is fundamental problem in the movie--the action sequences , which are numerous , are not exciting . sure , they're directed with flair and energy , but the certain knowledge that nothing remotely bad is going to happen to arnold or his pint-sized sidekick takes away any possible suspense . mctiernan has given us a lot of flashes and bangs , but , aside from the laughs generated by the parodies , there isn't much for us to sink our teeth into . the pulse-pounding , sizzling pull of a die hard is absent . plot problems abound , but at least the story is more coherent than cliffhanger . since it's a fantasy , a great deal ( such as the horrible plot device of the ticket ) can be forgiven , although there are several instances where last action hero violates its own terms for inner consistency . some of the things that go on in jack slater iv , a live-action cartoon , are enjoyable . there's an incredibly over-the-top car chase ( with cars flying off bridges and landing safely far below ) that's a lot of fun ( too bad most of the other action scenes aren't as memorable ) . once the freshness of the satire has worn off , everything becomes routine . it's to schwarzenegger's credit that he doesn't shrink away from self-mockery . the ending of last action hero is pathetic . by the last fifteen minutes , the uniqueness and fun have all drained away , and there's nothing in the climax to liven things up . perhaps if the villains ( a one-eyed sharpshooter named benedict , played by charles dance , and a homicidal lunatic called only " the slasher " , played by tom noonan ) had been more charismatic , the usual end-of-the-film heroics would have been enjoyable , but these are not the kind of bad guys that the audience can really enjoy hating . this is especially disappointing , since mctiernan directed alan rickman's standout performance as the slick-tongued , despicable nasty in die hard . there's also an interesting plot thread that's not developed at all . using the magic ticket , it's possible to bring any screen character to life in the real world . imagine what the film could have been like with draculas , terminators , and all sorts of other unworldly creatures roaming around . alas , the device is hardly used . there are also countless references and homages to movies both old and new . also notable in the area of takeoffs is schwarzenegger's portrayal of a gun-toting hamlet , although most of this sequence has been shown in the previews , so there's little new for theatrical viewing . there's also a running gag involving the line " i'll be back " but , again , the key scene is in the trailers and tv ads . as usual , arnold is far more impressive as a screen presence than an actor . he has a certain style that lends itself to action and comedy . on those rare occasions when he's forced to do a straight , semi-dramatic scene ( such as when slater recalls a rooftop tragedy that happened in his past ) , schwarzenegger's performance comes across with a dull thud . please don't let anyone risk putting this man in a serious movie ! the musical score by michael kamen , which consists primarily of a lot of loud hard rock combined with a few bars of classical , is far too intrusive . for the most part , music , much like camerawork , should be a background element in a movie . in last action hero , it's very much in the foreground . kids will like this movie . while it's true that there's a lot of violence in last action hero , none of it is graphic . the explosions , gunplay , and killings are no more extreme than anything shown on a violent television cops-and-robbers show . unlike jurassic park , there's nothing here that's likely to cause nightmares for anyone over the age of eight ( or thereabouts ) . maybe last action hero won't be able to top jurassic park at the box office , but i don't expect it to be a disaster , either . for my money , this movie is one of arnold's better recent offerings ( with the possible exception of total recall , about which i have mixed feelings , i haven't been enamored with much of what he's done since the original terminator ) . the same tongue-in-cheek style is evident , but this is a vastly superior effort . last action hero is a fun movie , and most of arnold's large legion of fans will be pleased by what he's given them . the number of people who hate this film will probably be dwarfed by those who enjoy it , and critical opinion rarely makes much difference with this sort of picture . no one is going to call last action hero a great film , but it provides a decent two hours worth of entertainment ( it's about ten to fifteen minutes too long ) , and that's a lot better than many of 1993's offerings . 
2	cast : rya kihlstedt , jeff webster , d v devincentis , marian quinn , maggie estep director : suzanne myers producers : sarah vogel , kelley forsyth screenplay : suzanne myers cinematography : tami reiker alchemy is steeped in shades of blue . kieslowski's blue , that is . with its examination of death , isolation , character restoration , and recovery from loss , suzanne myers' new independent film echoes the polish director's internationally-acclaimed 1993 release . language aside , the principal difference between the films is that , while kieslowski took great pains to draw us into the main character's world , alchemy keeps its viewers at arm's length . as a result , while we're able to appreciate the film's intellectual tapestry , it is emotionally distant . alchemy successfully explores a variety of compelling issues . in addition to asking the basic question of how a person should cope with the unexpected death of a loved one , it probes beneath the surface of concepts like the importance of faith in the healing process , the meaning of love , and the nature of art . does personality restoration come through interacting with others or escaping from the familiar ? myers' challenge is to make these subjects , art film staples , engrossing in a new context . while alchemy isn't always emotionally appealing , it never loses its fascination . even when we're not connecting with louisa , who is often more of a locus for ideas than a fully-developed personality , there's enough material on-screen to hold our attention . the cinematography is stunning . city scenes are tinted with blue , adding a cold , bleak dimension to the film's early portions . and , although louisa partakes of their peculiar brand of medicine , it's ultimately love and companionship , not alchemy , that brings solace . even though louisa's final transformation lacks the impact it could have possessed had she been a more vital character , it's still an intriguing and enlightening process to watch . alchemy isn't pure magic , but , especially during its best moments , it's close . 
1	my sex life ( or how to get into an argument ) [comment je me suis dispute . . . some might find this appealing film about parisian twenty-somethings , who refuse to grow up , to be quite amusing . these troubled student-intellectual types love to talk and are charmingly neurotic , in a film that unjustifiably goes on for three hours but does so in a surprisingly breezy fashion . i would have more carefully edited this film , as there were too many scenes that were nice but not impactful enough to keep . what the film does just right , that caught my interest from a psychological point of view : is penetrate the students' loneliness , the mind-games they play , their ideas about sex and love , their foolish need to lie , and the tribal nature of their relationships . these sort of devilish characters could be very attractive to the opposite sex , especially if they are handsome like he is and equipped with a facade of sensitivity and innate intelligence . you see , he thinks he loves another girl even more , sylvia ( denicourt ) , whose performance steals the film because of her unwitting sexual charm being displayed in such a capricious manner . nathan does not know that he knew sylvia before , which should tell you something about their close friendship . this really fine ensemble cast takes this meandering , real-life type of a story and makes it into an absorbing drama , carefully scrutinizing their intricate and confusing lives . val ? rie is very demanding , and suffers from being a bit metally unbalanced . jeanne balibar gives an eye-catching performance , one that adds just the right degree of spice to the meal being cooked . there are a few diverting subplots that are deftly handled by the director , as paul is snubbed by his pretentious ex-friend rabier ( vuillermoz ) , who becomes to his chagrin , head of the epistemology department at the university . what the film fails to do , after one may grow weary of all the charm it exudes , is provide any rationalizations or explanations for the split-ups and ongoing relationships . there are no shared intimacies , or greater emotional or intellectual depths explored . but the film is still a rather compelling and superbly acted-out black comedy , that has its glorious moments , but cannot go past its own facile limits it set-for- itself . 
0	to go back and see what that city is like now , should be interesting , especially since there is very little media coverage of saigon that reaches main street america . this rather sentimental elegy to his country , plays much like a travelogue , bent on painting a pretty picture of the country despite the sad tale it tells of four diverse , gentle souls , whose symbolic fictionalized venture will prove to be very touching , as we follow them around saigon and observe them as their lives sometimes interact with each other . what the film lacks is a real poet's cutting edge and tension , and what is also astonishingly absent , is a view of the political situation . but what is even more astonishing , is the complete lack of anger from those who are poor , whose lives are so polarized from the very rich . there is little risk taken here by the director , who has shot a purposefully fictionalized account of vietnam , showing only that it is being swallowed up by capitalism and its own passivity . the coca-cola signs and the luxurious hotels serve only as reminders that this country is being overtaken by commercialism and greed , nevertheless the director seems content to film his picturesque view of the city , as is , of these materialistic intrusions appearing without any kind of analysis as to why . the pastel colors of the film and the brightness of the city , allow even the squalid slum section of town to appear to be picture perfect . another symbolic message , this time relating to their country and how it must learn to love itself without being gobbled up by foreigners . the season is summer and it is extremely hot . everything gets tidied up in nice little packages by the film's end and every one walks away enchanted , and this very picturesque take on saigon , that seems to be a love affair the director is having with his ancestral country , turns out to be an irksome charmer to behold . it lacks what it thinks it has : poetic vision . there is not much substance in its lyrics , and its beauty can only be taken as skin deep . when we think about what this film was saying , there is not much there that is perceptive enough to add something worthwhile to its lugubrious tale . the plain truth is , that there was just nothing striking said during this well-crafted film to hold our attention . it was mostly an arty kind of mush , fed to a western audience that is dying to see something nice about vietnam , even if that something can't get past being sentimental jive . the clich ? d story had too many coincidences and improbabilities in it , and an incomplete picture of how this city now functions , for its story to be considered as being relevant to the topic it covered , except by those who are pleased and willing to see something about vietnam that lets them forget about the war and the terrible conflicts it brought to both countries . 
1	this is more of a message film than a noir thriller , but has been classified by most cinefiles in the noir category . brooks's novel broached the subject of a civilian getting killed by a soldier because he was a homosexual , but the breen office that acted as a censor for hollywood , would never allow that topic . so the filmmakers made the bias crime to be against a jew , which also was a subject hollywood tried to avoid , but , perhaps , because of the holocaust , it was allowed to be presented onscreen by the censor . coincidentally , in the same year , another film on the same subject , " gentleman's agreement , " appeared , which confined the anti-semitism to social situations . this b film , considered an experimental film , was budgeted for five hundred thousand dollars and shot in 20 days , and spent most of its budget on its star cast , and was rewarded with a box office success and a critically acclaimed hit . he had read brooks' novel and liked the book so much that he asked brooks , also a marine , to keep him in mind for the part of monty if the book ever gets made into a movie . the racial slur jewboy is used by monty , which emphasises how this is solely a hate crime . crossfire becomes more of a film about anti-semitism than it does a murder investigation , especially since there is no real mystery as to who did the killing . the script was stale , the acting was wooden by everyone but ryan . there isn't one character that doesn't speak in cliches except for ryan , and not a one has any individual depth . his original role was censored by the breen office . they felt it wouldn't look good to see soldiers frequenting a prostitute . what this film should be commended for , is that it brought to the public's attention that anti-semitism can also be the subject of a film . hollywood films have a history of staying away from controversial subjects and this b film did what other films didn't at the time . it is further interesting to observe , how this film got the ire of senator mccarthy and his witch hunters . under pressure from the censors , the filmmakers weren't allowed to explore any further the depths of anti-semitism . it should , also , be noted that both dmytryk and paxton received oscar nominations . the censors demanded that it is not in the best interest of the war department to show the soldiers drinking anything but coffee . even though the filmmakers were forced by the breen office to bend over backwards to make their film a safe one , it still was able to show the bias present in america and how serious a problem it was . it would have been a much better film if it weren't for the censor : there is absolutely no question about that . 
1	screenplay : lawrence wright and menno meyjes & edward zwick . producers : lynda obst and edward zwick . director : edward zwick . mpaa rating : r ( violence , profanity , sexual situations , adult themes ) running time : 114 minutes . the makers of the siege probably are throwing up their hands , baffled by the protests voiced by arab-american groups . you can feel co-writer/director edward zwick straining for every possible opportunity to make it clear that the siege is _not_ about arab-bashing . as the siege builds to a series of speeches condemning the idea that extremism in the defense of security is no vice , you know that zwick wants audiences to feel him championing the notion that islam does not equal violent zealotry -- that arab-americans are people too . there's one very important thing missing from the siege , however : a genuine connection to the people who are suffering . the film doesn't spend a second of personal time with a character actually interned in a detention camp , nor with individuals tortured by the military for information , nor with anyone victimized by anti-arab hate crimes . yes , shalhoub does get dialogue expressing outrage when his teenage son is taken prisoner , but the sentiment feels second-hand and token . during its final hour , the siege becomes a thoroughly generic thriller of chases and speeches -- more interested in being provocative than being empathetic , and more interested in the _idea_ of trampled rights than those whose rights are being trampled . in fact , it's a shame the siege had to go there at all , because its first hour works so well as a crackling police procedure drama . washington shares some exceptional scenes with annette bening as a secretive c . i . a . operative whose agenda may be very personal ; their clashing tactics -- the rule of law vs . the rule of expediency -- make for first rate and surprisingly platitude-free sparring . zwick directs the early action sequences with energy and economy , anchored by the always-satisfying images of determined people going about a difficult job with hard-nosed efficiency . willis himself is a huge part of the problem , taking a potentially complex character and quickly turning him into a sneering caricature of military sadism . even the fundamental honor and decency washington brings to every role starts to seem like sanctimony , because the script isn't serious about getting into the gray areas of individual rights vs . societal needs . the concept deserves more than heroes and villains pointing guns at each other . arab-americans may be troubled by the idea that some arab characters are portrayed as terrorists in the siege . they should be more troubled by the idea that , in a film with such an incendiary premise , arab characters in general are more symbolic than substantial . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	dalloway , an adaptation of virginia woolf's classic novel . because of its strong leading character and female-oriented themes , it's easy to understand why the film held such appeal for an avowed feminist like gorris . in conjunction with vanessa redgrave , the director paints a probing-but-flawed portrait of a thoughtful woman . redgrave , who brings depth and a sense of poignant longing to clarissa dalloway , was instrumental in getting this picture made . dalloway , and suggested to screenwriter eileen atkins that it would make a good movie . the point of the film isn't to debate whether she made the right or wrong decision , but to emphasize that everyone has roads not taken . dalloway is that it manages to effectively capture the poignancy and wistful yearning of gazing back through the years at what was and what might have been . clarissa's bittersweet reminiscences are so powerfully-presented that they will strike a responsive with many viewers . i left the film contemplating the undeniable truth of how quickly ( and sometimes cruelly ) time passes everyone by . graves plays the part effectively , and the story of the young man's loss of identity is tragic , but i found the warren-smith scenes to be more of a distraction than a crucial subplot . not surprisingly , the acting is top-notch . redgrave shines , whether she's gazing back through the mists of the past or , in the film's best sequence , making pithy asides to expose the true nature of the guests at her party . mrs . dalloway will probably appeal most strongly to those who appreciate merchant-ivory's unhurried pace . the story , which is more of a character study than a plot-oriented narrative , moves slowly and deliberately , giving us a crystal-clear picture of the many faces of clarissa dalloway -- who she was , who she might have been , and who she has become . - ingmar bergman 
2	producers : robin dalton and timothy white . director : gillian armstrong . mpaa rating : r ( sexual situations , violence , profanity ) running time : 132 minutes . i suppose you could call oscar and lucinda perfectly successful to this extent : i was genuinely fascinated by these two characters , and invested in seeing them happy together . the respective performances of fiennes and blanchett are certainly impressive -- fiennes the timid holy man with toussled hair and stammering speech , blanchett the " proud square peg " in a world of round holes . no screen pairing of the year offered more promise for fascinating interaction . what an absolute pity that the narrative divides oscar and lucinda almost as soon as they are united . it's just terribly frustrating knowing that these two characters are hanging around in the same movie , but not in the same scenes . an interest in the fate of their relationship may keep you watching , but it will also keep you fidgeting . on the page , i can see this story being an engrossing , heart-breaking page-turner . on the screen , with two great performances giving a spark to the rare moments these characters are together , oscar and lucinda becomes a beautifully filmed and splendidly acted tease . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	not that a minor inconvenience like a metal detector will stop any really determined delinquent . in fact , by the time this brainless action flick has ricocheted to a conclusion , someone has procured a rocket launcher for use in the halls . this is really a steven seagal movie with tom berenger doing his best seagal impression ( although , even at his worst , berenger has about 300% more range than the wooden-faced action star ) . director robert mandel ( f/x ) brings a sense of wry , warped humor to the substitute -- he rarely takes anything too seriously -- but it's not enough to save the film . admittedly , parts are fun in a mindless , visceral sort of way , but the whole is a lot worse than the sum of its parts . setting a vigilante thriller in a high school , even the high school from hell , might seem like a bad idea . after all , since the point of such a movie is for berenger to kick butt and kill people , his options would appear to be limited by the presence of so many juveniles . the clever screen writers have found a way to incorporate lots of nasty adults into the mix . this is no mr . holland's opus or dead poets' society , and no one is going to mistake berenger for richard dreyfuss or robin williams . clips . at one point , there's actually an attempt to espouse some kind of message about kids breaking the cycle of violence . " gang funerals -- is that what you want for yourselves ? for your kids ? " demands shale in one heartbreakingly poignant scene . not much is done with this theme beyond the redemption of a few minor characters , which is probably a good thing , since audiences don't come to this sort of movie for drama . the substitute has its moments , all of which fall in the realm of high camp . one scene not to be missed : shale , attempting to get his class' attention , roars , " i'm the warrior chief ! i'm the merciless god who rules over everything that stirs in my universe ! " it's a hilarious moment , and i'm reasonably certain the director intended for it to be so . nevertheless , aside from a lot of only moderately-satisfying violence , the substitute comes across as rather lame . it's not boring , but that dubious qualification isn't enough to earn the movie a passing grade . 
0	hungary/romania , 1994 running length : 1 : 25 mpaa classification : no mpaa /96 cast : mari nagy , joszef szarvas , geza toth , alexandru bindea , stefan silenau , marcu marcel director : peter gothar producers : sandor simo , sandor szongi screenplay : peter gothar based on a short story by adam bodor cinematography : vivi dragan vasile music : gyorgy selmeczy and gyorgy orban in hungarian with subtitles the outpost functions as an extended allegory that could easily have been shortened to about half of its final running length . some viewers may appreciate this opaque , grim depiction of the consequences of totalitarianism , but i'm not among them . the outpost is a very strange film , using stark lighting , bland characters ( even gizella is strictly one-dimensional ) , and repeated dialogue ( men at various stopping points say virtually the same things to gizella ) to drive home its message . the problem is , eighty-five minutes is a long time to sit through such a stagnant movie . there characters are so distant and their actions so meaningless that it doesn't take long for the outpost's pervasive apathy to reach the audience . we just don't care . newcomer mari nagy is very good as gizella , and peter gothar's fifth feature certainly gets the point across , but the outpost could have benefited from more substance and a few genuine characters amidst all the self-conscious weirdness . 
1	screenplay : m . night shyamalan . director : m . night shyamalan . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes , brief nudity ) running time : 110 minutes . [warning : the very nature of this review may involve plot spoilers for viewers who have not yet seen the film . ] of all the benefits i have received from being a film critic , i may value innocence the most . it may seem an odd choice of words in a profession more often associated with cynicism , but it applies nonetheless . while the onslaught of studio publicity is impossible to avoid completely , the ability to attend press screenings serves as something of a buffer against expectations . it was impossible for me to react to the blair witch hype since i had written my review six months before its release ; i never needed to guard against becoming aware of key crying game-esque plot points . it was possible for my viewing experience to remain relative untainted , subject only to pre-conceived notions for which i could have no one but myself to blame . it took the release of the sixth sense for me to realize how much that innocence can matter . reviews and discussions meticulously avoided revealing the specific nature of the ending , but by then the damage had been done . i considered everything i knew about the film , and made an educated guess regarding what would be revealed in its closing moments . then i finally caught up with the film , and watched with my " can i out-guess the writer " glasses on . within twenty minutes , it was obvious that i had guessed correctly . i'm not going to suggest that it was particularly clever of me to figure it out . i will suggest that i probably wouldn't have been testing my cleverness if i hadn't known there was something to be figured out . the simple knowledge that there was a plot point to be sussed out set me to sussing . and i spent as much of the film nodding to myself at the clues i recognized as i did trying to get caught up in the story . the nature of the film made such behavior both a blessing and a curse . writer/director m . night shyamalan's pacing is so agonizingly deliberate that i was delighted to have something else on which to train my attention . conversely , i was able to give bruce willis's monotonous performance a bit more benefit of the doubt , and admire the craft which allowed shyamalan's little trick to seem plausible . the only constant to draw me from my reverie was osment , a sublimely effective child actor whose performance alone is enough to recommend the sixth sense . children in jeopardy are usually a narrative cheat , but osment's reactions to his situation are always more compelling than shyamalan's few moments of thriller gimmickry . the irony is that my connection with cole's plight was consistently undercut by my awareness that the film's payoff would focus on someone else . perhaps my long-standing aversion to physician-heal-thyself psychologist/psychiatrist characters ( coincidentally sparked by another willis film , the ghastly color of night ) turned me off to malcolm as an equal player in the story . perhaps the supernaturally comforting closing shot reminded me too much of ghost . or perhaps i never bought the entire arc of malcolm's story from the outset . it's hard for me to know whether it was the film itself or my constant view of its wires which left me unimpressed . the success of the sixth sense suggests that it has struck an emotional chord in many viewers . for me , the only chords it could strike were technical . there was a not-particularly-inspired gag often used by titanic detractors during its theatrical run , something along the lines of " what's the point , you know the boat's going to sink . " most of the time , it's even true . next time , i hope i don't go into a film knowing whether or not the boat is going to sink . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	the film has no point to make but to emphasize that silly challenge , but , it at least softens its obnoxious attitude with an ending that is more satisfactory than what i expected from this shallow film . i can't see anyone but teenagers and , perhaps , hapless parents of teenagers , finding anything here of interest . though some adults might look back to those halcyon school days with an anxious leer and wish to recapture some pubescent memories of some shameful incident and to feel the nostalgia again through this movie . looking through the eyes of a lost adolescence is perhaps the only way to view this movie , a movie that makes sex into something that is implicitly evil . nevertheless , as awful as this gross-out film is , it will become a movie and video hit with its targeted youthful audience , following the footsteps of that other cheap thrill movie , " there's something about mary , " and because sex sells , other films like this one will unfortunately follow . the sexual awkwardness of the boys is exaggerated for comedic purposes , and the school looks as if it is around only as a stage for the teenager's rite-of-passage . everything in the film is used to get a laugh , but the film wasn't really funny , though its commercial success is due to the guilty laughs it evokes . for me , it was just a childishly gross and a sexually raunchy movie . but it smartly restrained itself and never pushed the envelope that step too far , staying well within the framework of how traditional sitcom comedy works . there were other gross-out scenes in a movie that had no edge , just embarrassing moments and vulgar gestures . if it weren't for all the grossness about sex and toilets , this would be a typical family-fare tv sitcom . the film sells itself through its sex scenes and then after exploiting every awkward sexual moment it possibly can from the teens , it reverses itself with a contrived moral ending to say that love is not forced and comes naturally , while those only interested in sex are creating unnecessary problems for themselves and putting undue pressure on themselves to be happy . his big deal , is that he can't say the four-lettered word love -- like , i love you vicky . the side players add to the gross-out gags . he is a particularly rich and obnoxious jock . a totally unnecessary scene , that was played without emotion or reason . the film's saving grace is the sound advice given about romance by the females . everything else about the film was just as gross as it appeared to be . the unimaginative comedy is of the lowest level , meant to titillate those in need of a teenage sexual massage . 
1	screenplay : jonathan hensleigh and j . j . abrams . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes , violence ) running time : 150 minutes . you gotta give bonus points to the touchstone pictures publicity department for uncommon candor on the subject of big-budget film screenwriting . after creating an additional writing credit to accommodate two more names ( " adaptation " on top of " story " and " screenplay , " as if you could figure out the difference ) , jerry bruckheimer and touchstone appear to have publicly embraced the concept of pot-luck screenwriting : the notion that if a dozen different guys all bring something to the table , you end up with a cinematic meal . the subject , of course , is this summer's favorite -- a huge celestial body on a collision course with our big blue marble , this one an asteroid the size of texas . it's enough to generate flashbacks from deep impact , where the feeble attempts to generate sweeping emotion more often generated sleeping emotion . armageddon , to its credit , at least gets its priorities straight . make no mistake , this is a special effects-driven action film , chock-a-block with ahhh-inspiring scenes -- exploding space shuttles , meteor showers toppling the empire state building , the gargoyles on the notre dame cathedral watching as paris is reduced to baguette crumbs . director michael bay predictably resorts to tension-builders like close shaves with countdown clocks , but at least he knows enough to keep the focus on the drill team's mission once they're in space . for its final 75 minutes , armageddon is virtually nothing but explosions , crashes and narrow escapes . . . and that's a good thing . it's the _first_ 75 minutes which truly test your gag reflex , as the aforementioned cadre of writers tries vainly to create the illusion of character development . stock interpersonal conflicts share time with tender moments as all involved make their peace before heading off to save humanity ; i'm not sure whether i was more moved by the gruff reconciliation between grace and harry , or a . j . wooing grace using animal crackers for foreplay ( don't ask ) . it's all a load of nonsense , made even less interesting by bay's foolish decision to keep chopping back and forth between the playful introduction of our roughneck protagonists and a solemn war room session at nasa . there's nothing cohesive or compelling about armageddon as narrative ; strangely enough , it feels like the result of a dozen different writers contributing individual scenes or lines of dialogue . i'm not going to suggest that armageddon isn't a pretty effective diversion . if there's one thing a dozen writers can do , it's produce a bunch of solid laughs and craft a few exciting action sequences . there's just not much more you can expect from a film where they seem more interested in throwing in a godzilla gag than in letting one writer create an actual story . for all the uneven visceral enjoyment that it's worth , touchstone pictures proudly presents armageddon : a blockbuster a la carte . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	despite a reasonably original story line , familiar characters , first rate special effects , and the hallmark meeting between captains kirk ( william shatner ) and picard ( patrick stewart ) , there's something fundamentally dissatisfying about this , the seventh " star trek " feature film . the problem is that while star trek : generations is undeniably a major motion picture , too often it seems like little more than an over-budgeted , double-length episode of the " next generation " television series . if the spirit of the series is ever again to boldly go , it will have to rise , phoenix-like , from the ashes . it's difficult to say how the general public will react to this film . unlike the previous sequels , generations is largely inaccessible to non- " trek " aficionados . however , with its focus on character development over action , it should prove enjoyable for those well-acquainted with the voyages of any enterprise . one of generations' strengths is its willingness to take chances with the familiar " star trek " mythos . this movie spends as much time tearing down old bridges as building new ones . there are problems , however , several of which are too obvious to ignore . first time feature director david carson's inexperience is at times evident . his film is inconsistently paced , with a few space battle/action scenes sprinkled liberally throughout an otherwise talky , protracted story . a combat sequence between the uss enterprise " d " and a klingon ship lacks any semblance of tension . looking back at the ship-to-ship duels of movies 2 , 3 , and 6 , there was a flair and buildup that is noticeably absent here . the battles in generations are hurried , and the viewer appears to be watching rather than participating , with little opportunity to savor the moment . equally unimpressive is carson's handling of a certain highly-emotional moment that figures prominently in the climax . again , perhaps he's rushing things , but those of us in the audience recognize that the scene should be far more affecting than it actually is . by comparison , generations' last moments are flat . malcolm mcdowell plays the latest--and probably the weakest-- " star trek " film villain . this is precisely because mcdowell's soran is too restrained-- " trek " bad guys tend to be at their best when hamming it up . shatner wears kirk like a comfortable garment , and somehow the film seems more alive when he's on screen . stewart , the consummate professional , is undeniably the better actor , but his presence isn't as arresting . even brent spiner , despite a wonderful , often-comic performance as lt . commander data , can't fill the gap left when kirk isn't around . one thing made obvious by this picture is that the " star trek " movies are in desperate need of musical continuity . dennis mccarthy is the fifth composer in seven films , and his score is perhaps the most bland of all . except during certain key moments when the alexander courage signature tune is used , most of generations' unmemorable music fades into the dimly-lit background . lovers of frantically-paced science fiction may find generations too static , and fans of the original series will likely be disappointed by the limited screen time accorded kirk , scotty , and chekov ( not to mention the absence of spock , bones , sulu , and uhura ) mostly , generations spends its running length searching for--and never completely finding--its niche . if there is an eighth " star trek " film , and generations isn't the series' epitaph , perhaps eliminating the burden of mixing characters from different eras will permit a less-erratic plot line . either way , however , " star trek " will never be the same . age and a few too many bad stories may have robbed kirk and company of their vitality , but nothing can take away their mystique--and that is the quality which will sorely be missed . 
1	it is a biopic that is brutally honest about the exiled writer as an opponent of castro's , one that lets us see that liberation to him was not only a matter of politics but of the freedom to be a homosexual and an artist , something which the castro regime couldn't agree with and came down harshly on both homosexuals and artists , by sending them to prison camps . his happiest moments in childhood seemed to be watching the nude men bathing and those moments connected with nature , such as his love for the landscape and the ocean . spanish actor javier bardem portrays arenas ( someone he closely resembles ) with great sexuality , perception and feeling , giving a virtuoso performance . castro will allow for no artistic freedom or homosexual activity , which he labels counterrevolutionary . julian schnabel has created an emotionally penetrating look at a man living with his alienation in a marginalized existence and using that bitter experience as a source of energy for his writing . this beautifully photographed film , which looks much like a series of paintings on canvas , might be too bleak for a general audience , but it paints a more realistic political view of castro's cuba than most of the recent films i have seen about this subject , and should be of special interests to those of all persuasions who care about freedom and the arts . 
2	it opens with images of a late-night poker game : cards , chips , sweaty palms , concerned faces , and a woman's fingernails . no one else writes lines quite like him : profane , staccato , and ending when you think there's more coming . this isn't just a mamet-scripted movie , either . it's a mamet-scripted movie based on a mamet play . like glengarry glen ross and oleanna , it's clear that american buffalo started life on the stage . mamet doesn't write for the ordinary movie-goer , which is why american buffalo has received such limited distribution , irrespective of dustin hoffman's presence . the writer is an acquired taste . although glengarry glen ross won much critical praise , popular opinion was less kind . and views on oleanna were so widely divergent that , when the film came out , it was difficult to find two people with exactly the same impression . whether you like him or hate him , though , mamet usually provokes a strong reaction . american buffalo starts out torturously slowly , with lots of cryptic dialogue about not confusing business with pleasure , a " broken toaster " , and some kind of " job " that a couple of down-on-their-luck guys are preparing to pull . it's an understatement to say that the film improves after the unpromising opening . as we become more comfortable with the erratic rhythm of mamet's dialogue , the plot starts to emerge . this conflict leads to a fascinating scene where the two men , sitting in the back of teach's car , discuss the psychology of home safes -- why people have them , what combinations they use for the locks , and where they hide the piece of paper they write the combination on . like a well-written musical composition , american buffalo builds to a crescendo . the sense of paranoid claustrophobia makes the tension almost unbearable . director michael corrente , who debuted with the derivative gangster film , federal hill , does justice to mamet's script . he elects not to open up the story , but still manages to remind us that the dying city of new york lies just beyond the junk shop's doors . and , after the uncertain first third , corrente builds a grim , edgy mood that never abates . dustin hoffman plays teach with caged energy . he's all mannerisms and nervous tics -- the waiting is unbearable ; he wants to act . it should come as no surprise that al pacino played the part on stage . but , by harkening back to midnight cowboy and resurrecting aspects of the long-dormant ratso rizzo , hoffman makes this role his own . it's the kind of towering performance that , if it came in a bigger film , would start talk of an oscar nomination . should he do the job or not ? does he need the money badly enough to put up with all this aggravation ? unfortunately , he doesn't quite have the screen presence to stand toe-to-toe with his experienced co-stars . in the final analysis , american buffalo is an intense , but flawed , piece of drama . the ending winds the tension so tautly that everything feels ready to snap , but , to reach that point , it's necessary to plod through a murky beginning . mamet's play may be twenty years old , but the themes of loyalty , betrayal , and ruthlessness are as applicable to the current social and economic environment as they were in the '70s . and that's a compelling reason why , if you don't mind the initial discomfort , it's worth staying for the entire film . 
2	cast : helen mirren , fionnula flanagan , aidan gillen , david o'hara , john lynch , ciaran hinds , geraldine o'rawe , grainne delany director : terry george producers : jim sheridan , arthur lappin , and edward burke screenplay : jim sheridan and terry george cinematography : geoffrey simpson music : bill whelan u . s . distributor : columbia pictures cinematographer geoffrey simpson ( shine ) manages the difficult task of capturing the film's personal moments as effectively as the more epic ones ( such as the funeral procession for bobby sands , which drew 100 , 000 mourners ) . bill whelan's forceful , energetic score is one of the best of the year . make no mistake : while the core story of some mother's son is universal in theme and deeply personal in scope , the narrative nevertheless shows evidence of a pro-republican bias . although the movie is arguably more balanced than sheridan's powerful and riveting in the name of the father , the british still come off as faceless villains . margaret thatcher's mouthpiece is a caricature of vicious , heartless cliches . but , regardless of your political leanings , terry george's picture is well worth seeing because of its intelligence and emotional depth , not to mention helen mirren's oscar-caliber performance . 
2	this is the director akira kurosawa's international breakthrough film , garnering many awards , including hollywood's 1952 best foreign language film oscar and the golden lion award , at the 1951 venice film festival . rashomon became incorporated into the everyday language , and japanese films became a regular part of the western world's film culture mainly because of this film . the strength of the film lies in its attempt to show how the search for the truth is laden with traps , as all four narrators of the horrid event depicted are supposedly telling the truth according to what they believe they saw but their truths still turn out to be veiled in mystery . in the intellectual scheme of this puzzler , kurosawa determines that the truth cannot be found because 'the truth is relative . ' the film is blemished only by kurosawa's backtracking at the conclusion , coming up with an unconvincing and hokey humanistic ending to counter his more potent argument that everyone lies for selfish reasons . what makes the film special besides its interesting philosophical theme , is the high-powered performances , especially the one by toshiro mifune as the manic bandit tajomaru , and in the frenetic movements of the camera ( whether slow or fast paced ) and the way it captured the intensity of the film , giving it its sense of urgency . this was a unique filming device used by kurosawa , of zooming in on the character when telling his or her version , as each had a different rhythm that the camera underscored by revealing the particular mood of the storyteller . the common man is not surprised that mankind is selfish , as he takes a cynical view of humanity , anyway , listening to the story as if it's just a typical murder one . the woman's version is quite different , as each narrator tells a version that makes them look good . there was no duel . she asks the court , what should a poor , defenseless woman like me do ? he says he almost forgave the bandit for acting honorable at that point . all three participants are shown to have poor character . the truth is subjective and can't be believed in its entirety because of each narrator's ego . this contrived ending is supposed to show that there are still those who will unselfishly reach out to help others . the film has not aged that well , though it seems to still be a powerful picture but , in my opinion , not the masterpiece it was once thought of . i think the same reevaluation will take place of kurosawa's long and distinguished career and he will be downgraded from being crowned as a great director to a very good one . he seems to suffer in most of his films from too much sentimentality and contrivances , though his strong filming techniques and very muscular camera work , as exhibited in this film , will remain his ultimate trademark . 
1	cast : robin williams , marcia gay harden , christopher mcdonald , raymond barry , clancy brown , ted levine , wil wheaton , edie mcclurg , voice of jodi benson director : les mayfield producers : john hughes and ricardo mestres screenplay : john hughes and bill walsh cinematography : dean cundey music : danny elfman u . s . distributor : walt disney pictures with flubber , disney is again guilty of self-cannibalization . this film , a remake of the absent-minded professor , is the production company's third recent re-working of one of their older films . one wonders if there's anyone at disney capable of an original thought . i find it amusing to note that , in the press notes for this film , disney has referred to the absent-minded professor as a " classic . " if this is an accurate description , then the word has undergone a radical devaluation . the 1961 movie was , at best , a mildly-amusing diversion . granted , it probably wasn't any worse than most of disney's other live- action offerings , but that hardly qualifies it as a " classic . " of course , disney has taken to using that term for just about everything they produce , deserving or not . i'm not going to spend much time comparing the original the absent- minded professor with director les mayfield's updated version . both are equally dopey , but , in large part because of the inclusion of robin williams ( taking on the fred mcmurray part ) , flubber has its share of genuinely funny moments , whereas the best the absent-minded professor could manage was an occasional chuckle or two . the special effects are obviously greatly improved , and the script has made allowances for the 36-year time shift . watching the 1961 movie now is a good reminder of how much society has changed . in fact , there are times when this movie feels like the latest installment in the over-milked home alone saga . although obviously a brilliant scientist , phillip has a little personality defect : he's forgetful . actually , that's understating the situation -- he's not just absentminded , he's a senile fruitcake . it doesn't matter that phillip has what he believes to be a valid excuse ; she's not interested in hearing any more lame explanations . the reason phillip missed the wedding is because he made the scientific discovery of a lifetime -- something he calls " flubber . " a jello-like green goo , flubber has the ability to energize anything it comes into contact with . put some of the glop on a golf ball and it will bounce higher than the tree-tops . people with flubber-coated sneakers can jump so high that they're almost flying . most of the humor in flubber is sophomoric , but that doesn't mean it isn't funny . the film has its share of laugh-aloud scenes , many of which are fueled by robin williams' antics . there's also a moment of explosive flatulence that had almost everyone in the audience in stitches . this is standard john hughes stuff , and he has used it too many times . it worked in home alone , but has become progressively more tiresome since then . what's so funny about a guy being repeatedly whacked on the head with a bowling ball ? one of the more innovative aspects of the film is a romantic subplot involving the professor's levitating robot assistant/companion/friend , weebo ( voiced by the little mermaid , jodi benson ) , who is infatuated with phillip . in fact , there's more chemistry between williams and this floating computer than there is between him and his female co-star , marcia gay harden . personally , i was rooting for phillip to get together with weebo in the end . aside from the jokes that work and a typically high-energy performance by robin williams , flubber doesn't have much to recommend it . the creature , a special effects masterpiece , is cute to look at , but doesn't have much of a personality . the bad guys are typically uninteresting , and the phillip/sara romance is trite . the worst thing about the movie , however , is the low intelligence level of the script . the best family films have something for members of all different age groups ; flubber is aimed exclusively at the under-10 crowd . if that describes your mental or physical age , you'll probably be hugely entertained . more discriminating viewers may get a few laughs out of the film , but little else . in plundering its own history , disney has come up with yet another exercise in mediocrity . " for me , the cinema is not a slice of life , but a piece of cake . " 
2	cast : gwyneth paltrow , john lynch , john hannah , jeanne tripplehorn , douglas mcferran , zara turner director : peter howitt producers : phillipa braithwaite , sydney pollack , william hocberg screenplay : peter howitt cinematography : remi adefarasin music : david hirschfelder u . s . distributor : miramax films some sort of decision had to be made , and , for better or worse , it irrevocably altered the course of your existence . perhaps even more dizzying to contemplate is how a seemingly minor action -- catching the 10 am train , for example -- could have an equally profound , yet less obvious , impact . maybe that's where you met your significant other , and , had you reached the platform just a few seconds later ? film makers are no less fascinated by issues of destiny than anyone else , and that's why there's no shortage of movies about this subject . in his autobiography , kieslowski on kieslowski , the director describes his attraction to the concept this way : " [the idea is] rich and interesting ? that every day we're faced with a choice which could end our entire life yet of which we're completely unaware . " while this approach has been the fodder for several notable dramatic films ( including , in a way , frank capra's it's a wonderful life ) , sliding doors is the first romantic comedy to plumb its depths . the " road not taken " approach isn't just a plot device , either . on one level , for viewers who enjoy pondering the workings of fate , sliding doors can be viewed as a deep and wonderful experience . but , for those who just appreciate a romantic comedy characterized by solid acting , a script with a few twists , and a great deal of genuinely funny material , sliding doors still fits the bill . one of its most obvious strengths is that it can satisfy many different types of audiences -- those who demand something substantial from their motion pictures , and those who could care less . it shouldn't come as any surprise that the acting , at least from three of the four leads , is solid . john lynch , taking a break from movies about ireland's troubles , does a good job presenting gerry as a inept , selfish philanderer . only jeanne tripplehorn , who plays an over-the-top vixen , seems out of place . her attempts at broad comedy are occasionally jarring , and it's occasionally difficult to see her lydia as anything more than a plot element . one member of the supporting cast deserves special notice . douglas mcferran , who plays gerry's best friend , russell , is an absolute delight , stealing every scene that he's in . part of this is surely because he is given the best lines in the movie . but it's not all in the dialogue . mcferran tears into this part with relish ; his performance becomes one of the most memorable aspects of a top-notch comedy . this is the first feature film for peter howitt , and he approaches the task with unimpeachable aplomb . the script is shrewd and inventive , combining wit , romance , and intelligent melodrama into a crowd-pleasing whole . sliding doors grants more than just a good time at the movies , however . for those who are so inclined , its central theme offers an opportunity to ponder some of the more philosophical questions about the workings of the universe -- all while having a good time . - ingmar bergman 
0	a sci-fi film , originally started as a student project , noted only for its great special effects , as created by dennis muren . muren now does the special effects for george lucas on his star war films and won an oscar for his work . this film is a good example of his first effort doing special effects in a feature film . the problem with this film -- that came 30 years before blair witch project and has its same scary themes played out in the woods by students -- is its amateur acting , shoddy production values , horrible script , and ridiculous story . the acting is so flat and awkward , that the film never seemed professional , even though it was reworked for theatrical release . it could be appreciated by some horror film buffs despite all its shortcomings and genre clich ? s for its crudeness . there are just some people who love bad films . the film is one long flashback of dave's recollections , as he seems to be also recollecting things he wasn't even involved with . don't ask me how he can do that ! jim , in between bites on his picnic chicken , says this is pretty heavy stuff . hey , jim ! the remainder of the film is a testimony to the special effects created on such a limited budget , but the story can only be constued as ridiculous , as the four young students who must have taken stupid pills to still be hanging around in the woods , continue on with their adventure . asmodeus will show his true face to jim and make him an offer for the book , offering to conjure up anything in the world he wants for it , which sounds like a fair trade , if you ask me . 
2	a delightful plot . the direction by mike newell in this and most other scenes is right on the mark . the characters are all written as fairly shallow people , and their lines have no subtle hidden meanings . the writer was content with just making a very funny and light hearted comedy . it really works . many lines are hilarious . he has filled the script with more interesting characters that you can count . the third string characters in his script are quite funny . he cannot speak , but there is more funny sign language than i have ever seen in a movie . although this is not the sort of movie that you will think about next year or even next month , you will have a very good time at it . four weddings and a funeral lasts 1 : 57 , but it seems much shorter due to careful editing ( jon gregory ) . it is rated r , but it is a light weight r . teenagers should love this show as well as adults . take a date ; it's great fun . it made * * * in my book and is certainly a thumbs up . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : march 28 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the scrutiny surrounding tomorrow never dies , the eighteenth " official " james bond film ( not counting casino royale or never say never again ) , isn't as intense as it was around goldeneye , but the attendant hype is , if anything , even more severe . product tie-ins are everywhere . turn on the tv , and you'll see pierce brosnan's bond hocking cars and credit cards . now , with tomorrow never dies , it's back to business as usual -- continuing the once-again healthy franchise . tomorrow never dies is a better film than goldeneye . in fact , it's the best bond film in many years . for the first time since the legendary sean connery left the part , this movie feels like a connery bond adventure . pierce brosnan , having left behind the jitters he occasionally exhibited during goldeneye , now inhabits his character with a suave confidence that is very like connery's . the villain of the piece , elliot carver ( played with panache by jonathan pryce ) , is cut from the blofeld/goldfinger mold -- sinister , cunning , and charismatic . ( how many of the roger moore/timothy dalton bad guys fit this type ? ) as is usually the case in a 007 flick , the bad guy is a megalomaniac . and that's where bond comes in . equipped with a brand new bmw that can almost drive itself , 007 goes undercover into carver's empire , pretending to be a banker . brosnan and yeoh click , and if there was ever a bond girl worth considering for an encore , wai lin is it . i can't be as positive regarding teri hatcher , who turns the supposedly-exotic paris into a bland , unalluring figure . her shared past with 007 is supposed to bring out his vulnerable side ( last seen at the end of on her majesty's secret service ) , but it's hard to believe that such an uninteresting person could inspire any kind of emotion . hatcher is the film's most obvious weak link -- fortunately , her screen time is limited . the action sequences are suitably entertaining . it's impossible to count the number of bullets fired , and there are pyrotechnics aplenty , including exploding missiles , a fireworks show on the ground , and a fairly spectacular climactic conflagration . for those who crave flashes , bangs , narrow escapes , and other action film staples , tomorrow never dies delivers . while the script isn't as openly jokey as some of the roger moore screenplays , it contains a fair number of one-liners . while some of these are predictable , several of them are unforgettably witty . brown's judi dench ) makes an acid comment about the roles of men and women in the politics of war , and moneypenney ( samantha bond ) offers a pun about bond's canny knowledge of different languages ( surely the best line of the film ) . there's also some playful repartee between 007 and his chinese counterpart . bond fans will likely love this movie . detractors will yawn it away as " more of the same . " in a way , however , that's the point . no one really wants bond to change or evolve , at least not significantly . tomorrow never dies isn't fundamentally much different from goldeneye or goldfinger , for that matter . it's the same basic formula put to effective use . what separates a good bond movie from a bad one isn't the plot -- it's the supporting cast , the intangibles , and the energy level . following this effort , there's no doubt that , once again , james bond will return . - ingmar bergman 
2	starring : robert de niro , chazz palminteri , lillo brancato , francis capra , taral hicks director : robert de niro producers : jane rosenthal , jon kilik , and robert de niro screenplay : chazz palminteri based on his play music : butch barballa released by savoy pictures robert de niro has appeared in some of the greatest gangster films of the past two decades , working for directors such as francis ford coppola ( the godfather part 2 ) , brian depalma ( the untouchables ) , and , of course , martin scorsese ( goodfellas ) . as a result , it shouldn't come as much of a surprise to anyone that de niro has chosen this genre for his first behind-the-camera motion picture . a bronx tale covers precious little new ground , but the presentation of the material is anything but ordinary . sure , on the surface , it's another gangster movie , but the story--like the deeply-realized characters--is multi-layered . a bronx tale could almost be accused of tackling too much , and perhaps its few failures are because the scope of the plot is so vast , but the film has incredible vision and packs a legitimate emotional wallop . the feelings generated are not the manipulative strains mastered by a virtuoso of melodrama , but the heartfelt stirrings of a well-directed , superbly-written motion picture . while there is violence in a bronx tale , it isn't the focal point of the movie ( curiously , most of the truly violent scenes are pretty much bloodless--we see graphic beatings , but little blood ) . the three principles--calogero , sonny , and lorenzo--are all highly believable . this is as much a credit to the writing of chazz palminteri and the direction of robert de niro as it is to the quartet of fine actors giving the performances . that's the part of the film that really sparkles . de niro successfully varies the tone , keeping it light and playful at times ; dark and somber at others . he is a master of visual foreshadowing--there are several instances when he lets you know what's about to happen before it occurs . while the cinematography isn't nearly as masterful as in scorsese's goodfellas , it's more than adequate for this picture . there's also a nice , unexpected cameo at the end which further reinforces the scorsese connection . a bronx tale is an absolute triumph for de niro , and proof that all his years of watching the best in the business haven't been in vain . as good as de niro is in front of the camera , it's now possible to hope that this is only the first of many opportunities on the other side . if what is yet to come has any of the promise shown by this debut , we may be witnessing the birth of yet another great directing talent . 
2	conformity is a staple of society , and those who refuse to fit in almost inevitably become the targets for all sorts of unreasonable persecution . obviously , this isn't the case for just one country . as the current worldwide news headlines point out , it's a universal truth , and colin nutley's house of angels provides another viewpoint of the price of conforming , or refusing to do so . the script is peppered with such instances , the most obvious of which relates to the two central characters . fanny and zac look like the wild , drug-addicted deviants that the townspeople believe them to be , but few are willing to get to know the pair well enough to test their preconceived convictions . once the label is affixed , nothing fanny can do will remove it . too many of the villagers don't want something new or different in their midst , and so are threatened by what fanny and zac represent . rather than concede the potential value in such diversity , they attempt to squash it . finding her father isn't of paramount importance , since she already recognizes what the audience comes to learn : it's who you are , not who your parents were , that makes the difference . given the nature of the subject matter , clumsy handling could easily turn every character into a caricature . credit director colin nutley for rigorously avoiding the stereotype pitfalls . the cast also deserves recognition ; there's not one of them that isn't up to the task of playing a unique part . house of angels is an excellent example of how a film that is basically lighthearted in spirit can be used to probe deeper , more intense issues without becoming preachy or overbearing . there's a priest in this film , but the movie isn't given to sermonizing . the picture's sense of fun rarely flags , nor does the inner core of drama that underlies each scene . house of angels has a lot to say , and the best thing is that the audience enjoys every word that's spoken . 
2	director roger nygard , whose last film was the hilarious documentary called trekkies , this time makes a fictional film , suckers , about car salesmen . the picture is such an honest and effective comedy that hbo has not only bought his movie , they've also committed to make a series based on it as well . nygard said the two films that influenced this picture the most were glengarry glen ross and clerks . the foul-mouthed , scary and funny sales meeting certainly pays homage to the first of these two pictures . actually most of reggie's comments are unprintable . as much as it is easy to ridicule all of reggie's advice , much of it applies to everyone with a sales job , although one hopes that most people in sales are a bit more humane . many of the car selling techniques you probably have experienced yourself , but others may surprise you . jj even had the same lovable , gregarious manner about him . the director said that they spent over three months in the casting of all of the parts so that the movie would feel genuine , which it does . " never apologize for it ! " one thing is certain , the energetic movie tries hard to be the best that it can be , which is a lot of fun . it is not yet rated but will undoubtedly be an r for language , sex , nudity and violence . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	it is an audacious film that will certainly win an academy award nomination for ellen burstyn , who plays sara . and if there were any justice in the world , it would win one for aronofsky as well . this movie , however , is the complete antithesis of a hollywood production and so has little chance of being recognized with best picture or best director nominations . easily the most visually audacious movie of the year , its camerawork ( matthew libatique ) and editing ( jay rabinowitz ) are astounding . approximating the effects of drugs on the brain , sometimes the film speeds up like a bullet train , and other times the action slows to a crawl . especially effective are the close-up images of everything from drug preparation to pupil dilation to paper airplanes . the director makes just the right choice in minimizing the surrealistic scenes in favor of speeding up the realistic ones . >from the first frame , the director comes out swinging . the film doesn't really start , per se . we feel much like viewers who have just turned on in the middle of a television series . even if burstyn's acting is the best of the bunch , all of the leads deliver probably the best performances of their careers . its big rules on its road to nirvana include no red meat and no refined sugar . as the four of them descend into their own hells , it is hard to watch but impossible to look away . caring deeply about each of the characters , we would no more turn away from them than we would a loved one . when the ending credits come , your audience will probably be like mine . no one moved or breathed . we were all frozen in our seats . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for drug usage , graphic images , nudity , sex and language and would be acceptable for college students and older . 
2	directors : roger allers and rob minkoff . there is a yin to every yang , and if there is a down side to the remarkable success of disney's recent animated features , it's that the mouse keeps upping the ante for every subsequent feature . most likely . while not as emotional as beauty or as fast-paced as aladdin , the lion king is genuinely entertaining , with moments of truly stunning visual creativity . only weakness in the music and a fractured tone hamper the proceedings . like the last three big disney hits , the lion king is a musical , but it probably shouldn't have been . elton john and aladdin lyricist tim rice have provided five new songs , but nothing has the sparkle of the menken/ashman compositions , and for the most part the production numbers seem more obligatory than inspired . " i just can't wait to be king " is a silly , gaudy bit , and " hakuna matata " is a recycled " bare necessities . " it also features a chilling sequence with goose-stepping hyenas parading past scar against a subtle background with images of swastikas . hans zimmer's afro-tinged arrangements and incidental score make the most of the music , but the lion king is much more effective when the story is spoken rather than sung . the story is a somber one , an animated " hamlet " of sorts , and frequently the animation matches that tone . these sequences might be less than entrancing to the very young , but they are offset by lively , funny sequences featuring timon and pumbaa . nathan lane gives timon a bugs bunny cockiness which is charming , and ernie sabella is equally endearing as the affably flatulent warthog . nala's pursuit of pumbaa is the film's comic highlight , but the action in the lion king tends to be more serious . parents should exercise some judgment regarding taking children under six . none of this is to suggest that the lion king plods along humorlessly . timon and pumbaa get the most to work with , but they are ably assisted by the other supporting characters . scar , while sinister , gets of some dark one-liners ; robert guillaume has a small but goofy bit as a yoda-like baboon . as zasu , a hornbill who serves as mufasa's chancellor and simba's chaperone , he gets a fussy part that's a cross between the little mermaid's sebastian and beauty and the beast's cogsworth , but atkinson's droll delivery makes it his own ( and provides the single biggest laugh with a shot at one of disney's most annoying songs ) . the lion king is not a masterpiece ; it is too slow at times , and has perhaps too many characters to juggle . still , it is witty and beautifully drawn , and is sure to continue disney's amazing animated winning streak . 
0	the audience for holy man will undoubtedly be just as nonplussed as g's fictional television viewers since little happens for interminably long periods of time in the movie . the script by tom schulman doesn't know where it wants to take the movie . there isn't nearly enough humor for a comedy , and the attempts at poignancy are awkward at best . schulman's last script , 8 heads in a duffel bag , was awful enough to earn the picture prominent positions on many of last year's lists of the worst films . " it depends on what you call 'flat , ' " he reasons . the movie tries to create a romantic angle between the two of them , but this subplot goes up a dead-end street like the rest of the story . before long he has his own program named -- what else -- " the g spot , " whose tag line is " a higher state of consciousness and non-stop shopping . " his mixture of pop religion and soft-sale capitalism fascinates viewers . would you rather be a " bay watch " babe or the dalai lama ? the movie is peppered with a series of cameos by everyone from football players to old stars in television shopping parodies . eddie murphy , although he is given some raunchy lines totally inappropriate in a pg rated movie , is remarkably restrained . one can have vigor in a role without being obscene , but eddie's brand of humor seems to work best only if it is relatively unhampered . in a movie that is generally as mild as milquetoast , there are nevertheless many parts that parents will find objectionable . the frequent profanity and sexual humor are not appropriate in a pg movie likely to attract kids . and why do we have a joke with the word " penis " mentioned three times in about as many sentences ? since most of the jokes are laced with sexual innuendo , the movie really isn't for kids . on the other hand , there isn't enough humor in the movie for teenagers or adults so the target audience is questionable . sometimes , as in jeff goldblum's long monologue on his father's failure as a salesman , the movie tries hard , too hard , to be touching . never does it succeed as anything other than a comedy , but it is a comedy with remarkably little laughter . although the movie has a long elapsed time of almost two hours , the director spends most of it trying to run out the clock . when the film's corny ending finally arrives , it is as unbelievable as it is predictable . surely , the test screening audiences must have warned them that the movie contained long stretches of humorless and pointless material . why didn't they do massive surgery to trim this celluloid fat ? in its place some truly funny home shopping sequences could have easily been added . it is rated pg for profanity and sexual humor , but parents should treat it as pg-13 . the film is acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * ? . both boys seemed restless and relatively uninterested during the movie . 
1	date released : 6/17/94 running length : 2 : 05 rated : r ( violence , language , mature themes , sexual situations ) starring : jack nicholson , michelle pfeiffer , james spader , kate nelligan , richard jenkins , christopher plummer director : mike nichols producer : douglas wick screenplay : jim harrison and wesley strick cinematography : giuseppe rotunno music : ennio morricone released by columbia pictures less a remake than a new exploration of lycanthropy , wolf nevertheless recalls the days of black-and-white horror films , when names like bela lugosi , boris karloff , and lon chaney , jr . topped marquees with the promise of chills and shudders . for the most part , however , wolf's strengths are in entirely different areas than its most obvious inspiration , 1941's the wolf man . while both movies boast an excellent , almost-palpable sense of atmosphere , and share some necessary plot elements , there the similarities end . the film is directed with sufficient flair by mike nichols , and acted ably enough by its cast , to make this suspension of belief a facile task . the problems surrounding the movie have nothing to do with its premise . the director might have been advised to spend more time in this setting , because when his film moves outdoors , and the transformation becomes literal , wolf finds itself sputtering . as tremendous as the character interaction is , the " horror " sequences , which feature rather routine transformations ( courtesy of makeup virtuoso rick baker ) , are flat . monster movies are supposed to frighten the audience ; this one fails utterly in that arena . it's odd to say that nicholson isn't scary , but that's mainly because he plays his character with a touch of subtlety that courts , and wins , the audience's sympathy . the corporate wrangling dissolves into the background as other , less-enjoyable subplots take center stage . will's cautious relationship with laura ( which includes inspired dialogue about what she wants in a man ) suddenly--and irrationally--turns passionately romantic , complete with dumb lines like " i love you more than i've ever loved anyone else . " and action and silly fangs are given too much prominence in an unnecessary and misplaced climactic battle . the acting , both by the leads and the supporters , is solid . nicholson's restrained performance makes will randall believable and , although somewhat underused , michelle pfeiffer still creates a reasonably-balanced personality for laura . kate nelligan , richard jenkins , and eileen atkins all do fine jobs in small roles , and christopher plummer's corporate tycoon is a delight to behold . ironically , it's the werewolf part of wolf that's the least successful . lacking the style and panache of the better elements of the film , the scenes of nicholson prowling on all-fours somehow fail to impress . 
0	screenplay : rich wilkes . director : michael lehmann . director michael lehmann's 1989 debut has become a cult classic , an acidic satire of contemporary teen culture with a surreal edge , perhaps most famous for launching winona ryder and christian slater on the road to stardom . only a loopy performance by adam sandler and a slightly more energetic final twenty minutes save it from complete disaster . in its appealing trailers , airheads looked like it was going to be a smart comedy about stupid people . consider yourself warned : this is another case where every funny line is in the trailer . the main problem with airheads turns out to be that it's a stupid comedy about people who aren't stupid enough . adam sandler is perfect ; his thick-as-a-brick reading of pip is far and away the best thing about airheads , good for some genuinely inspired comedy . fraser , however , is playing a basically average guy , and buscemi comes off as flat-out intellectual . airheads had the potential for a lot of laughs coming from the reaction of reasonably normal hostages and police to impossibly stupid band members . unfortunately , some of the hostages and most of the police officers are more idiotic than the lone rangers . the result is a bunch of jokes based on lame confrontations between the band members and a militant black d . j . , mckean's fatuous corporate type and each other , consisting almost entirely of third-grade insults focusing on bodily functions and sexual preference . the characters in airheads simply never interact in a way that's remotely interesting or funny . while the character-based comedy fails , airheads might have had a chance if it had actually been about something , if it had had a point of view or and attitude about * anything * . it's not a parody of corporate music , or corporate radio , or heavy metal youth culture , or even other hostage-based movies like dog day afternoon . there are a few clever moments near the end which take shots at the cult of personality surrounding crimes-in-progress ( all too familiar in the wake of the roadside cheering section in the o . j . simpson chase ) , but they come so late that they seem almost incidental . actually , airheads might be viewed cynically as about one very specific thing : selling a tie-in soundtrack album . in a crowd scene near the film's conclusion , there is a glimpse of the michael lehmann of heathers . it's the kind of whacked-out moment that made heathers unique , and there are a couple more like it that briefly give airheads a bit of juice . sadly , they are stretched out over a 90 minute movie . 
2	andy kaufman's performances constantly raised that question , and so does milos forman's movie about andy's life , man on the moon . starring jim carrey as kaufman as well as andy's alter ego , tony clifton , the movie tests the limits of the viewers' patience just as andy did . the frequently funny result is as much a curiosity piece as a traditional motion picture . but one fact is undeniable , carrey is terrific in the role and might finally earn the oscar nomination that he so richly deserved , but didn't get , last year for the truman show . then again , hollywood has never really warmed up to carrey's acting talent , so don't bet on any nominations . the script by scott alexander and larry karaszewski has the movie start with the closing credits . yes , you read that right , the closing , not the opening credits . one problem with the script , however , is that this turns out to be the highlight of the entire show . it never again reaches this level of imagination and joy . just as andy generated a mixture of reactions from his audience from grimaces to nervous laughter , the movie produces those same reactions . still , even at its most unpleasant , the movie features carrey's talent , which never ceases to dazzle and amaze . " i don't even do jokes . i don't know what's funny . " and to andy , success consists of so riling up his audience that half of them walk out in disgust . it's not often that a romantic relationship starts with a fight . perhaps the most honest line is uttered by a television executive . when shown the tape that andy wants to be his big tv special , the executive looks at it in total disbelief , saying the obvious , " this is not funny ! " " you're like some stupid kid who comes home and says , 'look dad , i got an f' , " george tells andy , as andy's career goes down the drain . enjoying a movie in which bad is supposed to be good is at best problematic , but carrey manages to make it strangely compelling . it's always hard to figure out whether someone will like a movie , but the recommendation on this one is easy . if you've seen the trailers , you've already seen the movie . the full-length version just fills in some details . if you liked the trailers , you'll probably like the film . and if you didn't think much of the trailers , well , save your money . it is rated r for language and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	i thought to myself . it was not for want of action that i questioned the lineage of true lies ; indeed , cameron continues to define the state of the art in the genre . but was this the same man who created some of the strongest female characters in recent memory , producing such a mean-spirited and misogynist throwback to the glory days of james bond ? although parts of true lies work extremely well , its long detour into an unnecessary and unpleasant sub-plot left me with a very bad taste in my mouth . i compared true lies to the james bond films , and those comparisons are both for good and bad . not that it's a problem ; the scene is sharply executed , and complemented by the surprisingly entertaining supporting work of tom arnold as harry's partner gib . however , it holds out promise for a witty film based on action set pieces , and that's not exactly what develops . instead , true lies takes a sharp left turn into farce , and for nearly half an hour becomes an entirely different film . for all its flash and star power , this segment of true lies plays like little more than a $100 million episode of " three's company . " but it's not just that it is contrived and interrupts the flow of the film . it also features harry treating his wife with an astonishing level of mental cruelty , and it's all played for laughs . with another , more plain-looking actor , this treatment might have come off as more light-hearted . schwarzenegger , however , simply looks too angry , and scenes like harry's interrogation of helen which had most of the audience howling with delight had me literally cringing . the spectacular final hour of true lies is almost enough to tip the balance back in its favor . the digital effects which enhance a harrier jet assault on a miami highrise are spectacular , and the pyrotechnics are dynamic . but i could never lose myself in true lies because of the jarring shifts between broad comedy and big action . it may be a funnier , more technically proficient film than hudson hawk , but it belongs in the same genre : the multi-million dollar caper . for many viewers , all that will matter is that arnold fires of a couple hundred thousand rounds , a bridge blows up , and there are some solid laughs . for me , a film like true lies could only work with a lighter touch and considerably less of a nasty edge . with cameron delivering so many of his jokes through clenched teeth , i found true lies depressing almost as often as i found it fun . 
2	an exciting film noir robbery escapade set in la , one that set the standard for such films . director richard fleischer shot the film in a taut manner , while the photographs of the dark la locale added grit to the film . 
1	it's a clever gimmick , but , ultimately , as depicted in white man's burden , that's all it is . once the premise is set , writer/director desmond nakano doesn't know what to do with it . added to that is the consideration that the basic story was developed in a screenplay written thirty years ago , when the entire concept would have seemed a lot more radical and original . nowadays , seeing a prosperous black man isn't at all unusual . likewise , it doesn't take much searching to uncover underprivileged whites . indeed , without painting characters and situations in the broadest possible manner , there wouldn't be a concrete way to recognize the role reversal . yet it's this reliance upon archetypes and cliches that undercuts the film's message . something a little more subtle is needed than a group of black cops beating a white man with night sticks . what is the country's political structure like ? there isn't much of a story in white man's burden . the idea of a relationship developing between a kidnapper and his victim is nothing new , and not much of interest is added here . the director is so busy pointing to skin color that he loses sight of the characters under the pigmentation . there's nothing compelling about either of the leads . they never connect with each other or the audience . sure , there are some nice touches , like the scene where louis teaches thaddeus the best way to put salt on his french fries , but there aren't enough moments like that . it often seems that there's a good story trying to break free , but white man's burden is so loaded down by contrivances and the need to get its message across that it smothers creativity . after playing three similar characters in a row ( see pulp fiction and get shorty ) , travolta can probably do this kind of role in his sleep . and , of everything the actor has accomplished since quentin tarantino brought him back into the spotlight , this is the least impressive of his performances . harry belafonte , who has been largely absent from the screen for the better part of two decades , has chosen an odd movie for a comeback attempt . he's okay here , but this isn't the kind of part that will earn him raves . the plot of white man's burden is capable of holding an audience's attention for most of its running time . based on the premise , however , viewers have a right to expect more than they get . skin color swapping and facile assumptions about the relationship between race and economics are used more as cheap plot devices than as a basis for a probing examination of real issues . while it's the film makers' task to form something solid and meaningful out of their alternate reality , in this case , the burden appears to have been too great . 
0	screenplay : tim burns & tom stern and anthony waller . director : anthony waller . mpaa rating : r ( violence , nudity , adult themes , profanity ) running time : 91 minutes . it's a truly surreal experience , sitting through a film like an american werewolf in paris with your mind overwhelmed by a piercing cry of " what were they _thinking_ ? " john landis' 1981 an american werewolf in london was hardly an inviolable classic , but it was crafty and creative , a comic horror film which was both genuinely scary and genuinely funny . an american werewolf in paris , on the other hand , is genuinely unwatchable -- a collection of bad ideas thrown onto the screen without any apparent consideration to little details like coherence or appeal to an audience . the tragedy is that director anthony waller proved he could mix tension and comic relief quite effectively in his debut feature mute witness . what follows is so misguided on so many levels that it becomes horrifying for all the wrong reasons . the male leads fumble with inane dialogue including such gen x-authentic ripostes as " this is madness ! " ; the attempts at humor range from turning a pair of undead characters into fourth-rate rejects from the frighteners , to the wildly hilarious conceit that andy -- get this ! -- keeps bumping his head on everything in sight . waller directs it all as though guided by the humanitarian desire just to get it over with , with baffling unexplained resolutions , leading to a cringe-inducing happy ending which looks like it was stolen from some mid-80s shlock comedy starring andrew mccarthy . it's all the more aggravating when a film this sloppy pretends to be interested in making some sort of social statement . the primary villains in paris are a group of pseudo-skinheads who have intentionally infected themselves with were-blood so that they might more efficiently rid french society of its contaminating elements -- vagrants , junkies , american tourists . if the point was to make americans feel better about encountering mere attitude in paris rather than flesh-rending canine teeth , mission accomplished . if waller's intent was to offer some metaphorical indictment of who-knows-what , it's lost in his frantic story-telling long before we can nod in socially-conscious superiority . some viewers will undoubtedly trek to paris simmply to see a genre film , but even they are likely to be disappointed . the computer-generated werewolves are thoroughly unimpressive , and the transformation scene tossed off so quickly you'll be instantly nostalgic for rick baker's incredible makeup effects from london . the script makes its token attempts to spice up the werewolf legend with a few new details and some pseudo-science , but none of it generates thrills or scares ( just a couple of moderately effective gross-outs ) . if they want to add a new twist to lycanthropic mythology , here's a suggestion : anyone who makes a werewolf movie this bad becomes one of them . the line to fire the silver bullets forms behind me . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	frankly , i'm not entirely sure at what audience three wishes is aimed . with its wholesome , politically-correct story , it seems focused at the under-15 crowd . yet , considering the slow pace and relative dearth of action , adults might be the only ones with the patience to sit through these two hours . the result is a film that doesn't have a strong appeal for any age group . some viewers will undoubtedly be charmed by this mystical , whimsical motion picture , but it's doubtful there will be enough fans to save it from a quick box office death . hardly a traditional heroic image . as the soundtrack , which includes such tunes as " do you believe in magic ? " its message , which is all-but-shouted from the rooftops ( subtlety is not the film's strong suit ) , is that we should all stop yearning for what we can't have and " find happiness in whatever [we've] got . " just because there's a piece missing from the puzzle of the american dream doesn't mean that life can't be wonderful . this is a very traditional theme , and one that's probably a little too obvious for a sophisticated movie-going audience . of course , for those not impressed by the message , there's a heavy element of nostalgia to inhale . as relatively pleasant and undemanding as this film is , it runs a little too long , primarily because the setup takes the first half of the movie . three wishes appears to have undergone some fairly heavy editing to get it below the two hour mark , however , since several minor subplots are left dangling . the film opens and closes with brief contemporary ( 1995 ) scenes that might have better underscored the primary theme had they been given a greater portion of the running time . character development is also on the weak side . basically , they're just well-acted stereotypes with a few interesting lines of dialogue . the supporting characters fare far worse--there isn't an interesting one in the whole lot . darker than capra , yet somewhat reminiscent of ( albeit inferior to ) classics like it's a wonderful life , three wishes has a good heart , effective direction by martha coolidge ( rambling rose ) , and solid acting -- yet the occasional meandering of the script doesn't allow the movie to be as engaging or enchanting as it ought to be . three wishes is all about the supernatural , and , considering the nearly impossible-to-market nature of the subject matter , it's going to take a major miracle for more than a handful of people to see this film in theaters before its quick transfer to video . 
2	rivette has created a work of art from a short balzac story about art , " the unfinished masterpiece . " it is just something she does so she could be independent of nicolas . la belle noiseuse , which we are told , is the title of the masterpiece , is about a 17th century lady of the world who was kind of nutty in the sense that she was difficult to figure out , who is referred to as being someone who is a " ball-buster . " what makes for a captivating depiction of an artist at work , are scenes such as these , where one's sense of time is lost , and the length of the picture , ( it is 240 minutes ) does not seem wasted even for a minute , as we watch and become part of the creation , starting from scratch , and actually are hearing the artist's scratching sounds on the canvas for minutes at a time with no action on the screen but to view him work and watch him manipulate the model into the pose he wants , even when she complains that he is hurting her . frenhofer is stuck . he is filled with self-doubt if he can ever paint again . marianne asks him , " why " me " naked in front of you , why not liz " ? she goes on to say , " i need to understand this " . . . it seems the situation has reached a point of no return . every character is now playing out his emotional trump cards . there is a hint of a possible affair that might have taken place between balthazar and her ten- years ago , that seems to be the cause of the tension we feel among the three of them . liz says , " for freno , it is the art of it , it is the capturing of a whole life in a painting--- it is that thing that makes art shameless , that is what matters to him . it is as if one can see one's whole life passing in a flash , like it might be for a person drowning . " so the camaraderie between the two artists seems to be genuinely plausible , in the sense , that they do understand each other , that is , as far as their work goes . with freno , in the position of control in his life , he is able to patronizingly say to nicolas as he departs , " i like you , don't ever change . " the last shot is with the agent , talking numbers with frenhofer , deciding how much they will get for the masterpiece . the acting is exceptionally good by everyone . piccoli as the artist is mesmerizing , while emmanuelle is both beautiful and intelligent , offering a special quality about her that makes it possible for us to believe that a masterpiece could come out of her poses . the only thing that struck me as odd , is that the final masterpiece drawn , supposedly by bernard dufour , did not appear to me to be a masterpiece , but a rather ordinary work . the picture itself is the masterpiece ; that is , the creative process itself , was convincingly done , by a director who has the skills and knowledge to tell such a story and never allow the story to be wavering from its lofty position of significance , as anything but an honest intellectual effort , a search for the truth within . 
2	count the funny one-liners . that's the measure of most good comedies today . the farrelly brothers , bobby and peter , who brought us dumb & dumber and kingpin , take an entirely different approach . relying on funny plots , as opposed to single lines , and on great physical comedy , they manage in there's something about mary to produce a movie that should come with two warnings . one , people may laugh so hard , as our audience did , that they are in danger of rupturing internal organs . ( at our advanced screening , i heard louder laughter than at any movie since private parts . the laughs sounded like small explosions . ) two , the farrelly brothers are proudly ignorant as to what might constitute inappropriate humor . in one of her best performances yet , cameron diaz plays mary with grace and charm . comedy comes so naturally to diaz that she seems to be barely acting . her performance is as captivating as it is funny . it is in this long sequence that the movie first demonstrates its comedic brilliance . most movies would dissolve into bad slapstick if they attempted to stay with this one idea for so long . the farrelly's , helped by the extremely expressive stiller , keep the joke going for longer that you would ever image , and they make it much more explicit than you might guess . the result is sure to have at least half of the audience grimacing in pain as everyone laughs so hard their sides may split . ( the stuck-in-the-zipper routine isn't even close to the movie's most outlandish part . much later there is a masturbation sequence so funny that it almost brings the house down with laugher . ) this just gives you a flavor of this uproarious movie . i'll let you experience the rest yourselves . and i haven't even mentioned the flaming dog or a hundred other hilarious parts of this high-energy delight . many of the scenes have unprintable descriptions anyway . there's something about mary runs 1 : 55 . it is rated r for strong comic sexual content and language and would be fine for most teenagers . 
2	romeo and juliet as a movie to laugh at - what a concept ! after his brilliant and highly innovative strictly ballroom , director baz luhrmann's second movie is his cinematic treatment of shakespeare's romeo and juliet . since franco zeffirelli's 1968 version is one of my favorite movies of all time , i was curious how luhrmann's version would turn out . certainly it has been one of the most hyped films of the year . i predict audience reaction will neatly dichotomize into those who feel the show is absolute garbage , notice the first song is aptly song by a group called garbage , or great campy fun . let me confess that i am firmly in the later group . most of the cast view their parts as total romps . this makes the film into almost a movie within a movie . the rest of the cast is not quite this off the wall , but close . to have actors trying to be serious ensconced within a broad farce makes for an interesting contrast . this is a fun film whose high energy level is off the charts . with most films you start by discussing the acting , but not with this one . it is the direction , the sets ( catherine martin ) , the editing ( jill bilcock ) , the costumes ( kym barrett ) and most of all , the cinematography ( donald mcalpine ) that is the essence of the production . well , mcalpine does this with great and effective gusto . couple this with light speed editing , and you've got a film that veritably pulsates with energy . the sets are extremely colorful and outlandish as are the costumes . most of the montagues wear hawaiian shirts and have multicolored hair . the capulets stick to wearing all black and have greasy slicked back hairdos . religious imagery crops up everywhere . there is even a dream sequence where mercutio dances in drag at a bacchanal under an enormous picture of the virgin mary . many will view all of this as sacrilegious , but i took it as good satire . if you think you will be offended , then consider this review as fair warning to avoid this picture . it switches from video snow to a news anchor ( edwina moore who played the wmia co-anchor in up close and personal ) who delivers the prologue , " in fair verona , where we lay our scene , two households both alike in dignity " , and the epilogue , " never was a tale of more woe than this of juliet and her romeo . " the editing is even less subtle than the photography . during the prologue , we keep switching to the words in fair verona on a solid background to make sure we are not missing the points . there isn't a subtle moment in the movie . the music ( nellee hooper ) and the sound of the film are dramatic and impressive . the sounds , especially of the ever prevalent guns and hot cars , are loud and jolting . the acting by most of the cast is full of exaggerated gestures , but next to mercutio , the most outlandish is that diane venora as gloria capulet , paul sorvino as fulgencio capulet and miriam margolyes as the nurse . since it is just about to open , this is usually a bad sign and means the film is in trouble . i am not sure what the problem was . at any rate , baz luhrmann's romeo and juliet should be controversial and popular , the former to make even more of the latter . most shakespeare , even ian mckellen's vision of richard iii as a world war ii british fascist , is done seriously . here , the critics in the theater were laughing with the picture . baz luhrmann has turned a romantic tragedy into a farce and an extremely handsome looking farce at that . the downfall of the show has to be the acting . visuals like dave paris ( paul stephen rudd ) being on the cover of time as the most eligible bachelor in the land are funny , but most of the actors do little more than read their lines . the script by baz luhrmann and craig pearce is a very literal adaptation of shakespeare's text , but the director uses the images of the story and not the words to convey his message which is a shame . the acting by claire danes and leonardo dicaprio is good , but nothing special . they've all done better work . the rest of the cast is okay . the excitement of the film can be attributed to baz luhrmann and his previously mentioned crew . a director who places much of the balcony scene in and under the water of rich capulet's swimming pool is one not afraid to take risk . a wild picture by a bold director . romeo and juliet runs about 2 hours and my guess is that the film is rated r . they were lucky to have a screening much less get out a press kit . the film contains one drug use scene , bloody violence , but no bad language , sex or nudity . given that the much tamer zeffirelli film had brief and effective male and female nudity , i was surprised that this outre version didn't . the show should be fine for teenagers , who will probably love it . i found it great fun and give it a thumbs up . it is destined for cult classic status . although i rate it * * * , if you see it and hate it , don't say i didn't warn you that it was extremely bizarre and certainly not for everyone . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	okay moviegoers , dust off your old balance scales as you try to decide whether deep impact is worth recommending . ( deep impact is the first of this year's big-rock-hits-earth movies . on the plus side of the scales you will probably want to include the marvelous acting by such veterans as morgan freeman and robert duvall as well as younger star tea leoni from flirting with disaster . also on the plus side are some remarkable special effects in the third act - the first has some cheap looking ones straight out of an old buck rogers movie . finally , the outline of the story , as opposed to the details of the script , is fascinating , so you'll want to put it on the positive side . on the negative side , mimi leder's direction and michael tolkin and bruce joel rubin's script is so confusing and so riddled with holes that you'll spend the hour after the movie discussing all of its problems with your date and friends . the large array of needless subplots and unnecessary characters goes on this side . the biggest weight on the negative side of the scale is the long second act in which the movie loses all momentum and tries to turn from a big budget action adventure to a maudlin soap opera . of course , you may want to balance the scales differently . the second act is an excruciatingly long and slow weeper full of lugubrious mini-dramas about people lamenting the end of civilization as we know it . so we have a sleep-inducing action picture - now there's an oxymoron - that is bracketed with some great scenes . " i know you're just a reporter , but you used to be a person , right ? " with some great scenes reminiscent of broadcast news we go into the inner workings of a television newsroom . elimination of both of their characters would be a huge improvement . if their characters belong in a movie , it's not this one . and he's honest . if you can only see one earth in peril movie this year , this is not the one to choose . there's no guarantee that bruce's will be any better , but hope springs eternal in the land of popcorn and candy . deep impact runs 1 : 55 . it is rated pg-13 for intense disaster- related elements and a little profanity . the picture has the potential for scaring the living daylights out of impressionable kids , but in general it should be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
1	writer , director and producer randall wallace's screen version of alexandre dumas's the man in the iron mask will likely be remembered as the one that set the record for the most times that the classic phrase , " one for all and all for one , " is spoken . but none of them are delivered with anything approaching genuine feeling . wallace pays careful attention to the casting and even more to the production itself , but little to the story . the result is an exceedingly beautiful but vapid picture - a costume drama without the drama . why would my people feel anything but pride and contentment ? " ) dicaprio , looking like his fame has gone to his head , nevertheless , overshadows everyone else in this cinematic soap opera . arguably the most beautiful actor or actress in hollywood today , he especially outshines his main romantic conquest in the film , played by a rather plain looking judith godreche . john malkovich gives a didactic reading of the part of athos , which might have worked if the dialog were not so stiff . jeremy irons is the overly sincere priest aramis . and gabriel byrne makes d'artagnan into an excessively somber character , who spews out trite phrases like the rest of them . with peter suschitzky's golden-hued cinematography , nick glennie-smith's sweeping and heavy violin music , anthony pratt's lush sets and james acheson's lavish costumes , the film has much to recommend it . in one particularly stunning scene set beside a babbling brook , the audience is able to soak up the pastoral beauty -- that is until someone starts speaking . the best part of the movie has to be the ending credits . it is only then that we can enjoy the music without fear of some inane dialog shattering our rapture . how about a movie worth caring about ? how about characters who say something more meaningful than , " there is more of me to love than a crown . " how about a production that isn't so devoid of humanity ? and if wallace couldn't have done any of that , couldn't he have at least tried some liberal doses of humor ? unless you have a thing for dicaprio , you're better off renting any of the other adaptations . it is rated pg-13 for swashbuckling violence and some sexual situations and would be fine for kids from around 8 or 9 and up . 
2	screenplay : hugh leonard . director : john irvin . i can't think of a film in the last few years set in ireland that i did not enjoy , and i'm fairly sure it's not coincidence . it's me celtic roots crying out , it is . the verdant hills , the piqued accents , the mystical catholicism . . . all grip me in a way that is difficult to explain . so i warn ye to take my comments regarding widows' peak with a certain grain of salt , even though i believe that you don't need to be a celtophile to find it a wonderfully entertaining comedy-mystery . widows' peak was directed by john irvin , whose previous projects have been primarily action-oriented ( raw deal , hamburger hill ) , and it may be that sensibility which makes this film more than just another pastoral romp . while there is plenty of lovely scenery , there is also a tremendous level of energy , a sassy edge uncommon to films in similar settings . the high spirits are further enhanced by the performances . joan plowright is wonderful as the dowager queen of widows' peak , even if she could play a part like this in her sleep by now . her matter-of- fact confidence that her every whim should be gospel is delightful to watch , as are the subtle ways in which she demonstrates her condescension . in her first post-woody outing , farrow reminds us that she can indeed play something besides a female version of woody allen's neurotic persona . her role here is a tricky one to pull off , balancing several layers of suspicion and deception , but she does pull it off , and with surprising grace . she gets some positively venomous lines , and seems to delight in delivering them . irvin has clearly made her role the showcase , and in one last lingering shot , seems to be saying , " i knew you could do it . " the mystery elements which drive the second half of the film are perhaps a bit too easy to figure out , as irvin and screenwriter hugh leonard underline each of their clues with too much emphasis . but if they are not tremendously surprising , it doesn't seem as though they were really intended to be . this is not a film predicated on some gasp-inducing , crying game-like twist ; rather , the plot twists are just there to allow the character development , befuddling at first , to fall into place . in fact , the only time widows' peak really slows down is when there is lengthy exposition , particularly at a dinner party which is unfortunately handled in a slightly clumsy manner . but with or without the mystery , widows' peak would still have been funny and frisky , filled with nicely detailed cultural moments but mostly just a crisp and fun-filled hour and forty minutes . 
0	i was never a comic book fan , though as a child i was a casual reader of such comics as archie , batman , and superman . i have never read x-men , which was created in 1963 , or for that matter too many other comic books as an adult , and therefore do not view this $75 million special-effects dominated film with the same reverence that an aficionado of such sci-fi fantasy comics would . i'm just interested to see how fox's new comics-to-film adaptation presents itself , as i found very few such projects turn out to be worthwhile films . the results here are only tepid , as far as entertainment value goes . other than that , i had no interest to see if the filmmaker made a travesty of the sacred comic book , as i'm certain x-men geeks will carefully scrutinize that aspect of the film more than i will care to . it is a commercial film , geared to be a summer blockbuster , also hoping to cash in on selling its merchandising wares to its young fans , and cashing in down the road with a number of sequels . its special effects were , at times , dazzling , but i'm not partial to high tech films without too much else going for it , especially for a superhero film that seemed as awkward as this one was . i only ask : why was the filmmaker so sober-minded about filming this comic book story film ? what seems tiring about it , is all the other characters in the film who are given quality time and end up just showing us their supernatural gifts and halloween-like costumes before disappearing from any further characterizations . the story , before it reached its action climax on the statue of liberty at ellis island , where the world leaders are convening , hit a lot of tired spots , where the movie seemed to be more or less a promo for more sequels than one that could sustain its own story . the premise of x-men is -- that its heroes are mutants -- homo superior beings -- the next evolutionary stage for human beings , who are discriminated against because they're strange . for most of the film , we are introduced to the opposing sides of this good versus evil duel . he can scale walls and has a 12-foot projectile tongue . wolverine is a hothead , a loner , and the existential hero of this film . his claws project out rapidly from his knuckles and can cut through almost anything . it is obvious that singer developed a love for this comic book story and its mutants , but he failed to distance himself from it and ended up with a ponderous , uninteresting film , that failed to get to the heart of any character in the story , and left the story hanging by its special effects , which made the film seem dried out long before its action scenes took hold . it was only mildly diverting as far as entertainment value and that is because of the welcomed hammy performances by stewart and mckellen . i'm sure that regular fans of the comic book will find some inside jokes in the film to laugh at , but i just tended to grow weary of the effort and was not converted to the x-men project . the film needed a healthy share of irreverence to rev me up for all this righteously moralistic stuff it lays on you . 
2	sometimes even the slightest of comedies can come alive with the right talent . so it is with the matchmaker , an irish comedy staring janeane garofalo . and not since the truth about cats & dogs has she been given a part where she looks so appealing . in the latter film she wasn't supposed to be cute , but was and even outshone uma thurman . soon , however , the weather in this charming tale turns to bright , glorious sunshine . as dermot , the local matchmaker , milo o'shea gives a heartwarming performance . the story keeps cutting to a home video he is making extolling the virtues of matchmaking . as we learn in a ross perot-style pie chart presentation , the four ingredients of a good marriage are : love , sex , eating , and having a good laugh , with the latter having the largest slice . dermot's dead seriousness would work well on a late night infomercial . nothing like a third-degree burn to turn on the ladies . " it's so beautiful here , " marcy tells sean , " if it just had the new york times , it would be perfect . " the supporting cast would have come to nothing without garofalo . several times in the movie she delivers lines that should be no more than mildly funny , but which elicit huge belly laughs from the audience . with her self-assured and winsome ways , her charm bowls you over , which makes her acerbic wit all the more effective . the story frequently loses it way only to have some line or gesture from garofalo get it back on course . the writers use several nice plot twists to resolve the show's predicaments -- some of which are easy to guess and others aren't , but it doesn't matter . it is rated r for a few words of profanity , many of them with unfamiliar irish pronunciations , and the film would be fine for kids around 10 and up . i recommend this delightful picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 4 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	roos's first feature film as director , is a snappy , satirical and hip sitcom that is not a sitcom , but is a semi-comedy . it stars ricci , as a bitchy 16-year-old , without any noticeable positive qualities , who begins the film by warning those who don't like her voice-overs , they will be out of luck . this film tells you how smart it thinks it is - that it is so cleverly written , that it can say anything about anyone and get away with it . what remained constantly grating throughout the film , was ricci's snide voice-over comments that were politically incorrect : insulting gays and holding a negative view of sex . she dresses in tartish , campy outfits , and is always smoking a cigarette , adding to the film's theme of being opposite to what is expected of a teen . ricci succeeds in her role of getting the audience to dislike her . but when you contrast the personalities of the men compared to the women , the men leads are bland and affable , while the women all have verve and fuller depth to their characters . how one rates this film , depends on what one is looking for . if it is laughs one is after , there are plenty of them . if it is a well-developed film , not a one -gag movie , then one might be disappointed in the film , as it tended to make one grow weary of its plot and put off by its overly clever voice-over . if one is looking for some deep meaning , then one will be pleased by lovett's reflective statement to lisa , " that sex isn't just for recreation or procreation , but for concentration - that when making love , the experience allows one to relate wholly with someone else so that one can forget their loneliness . " for me , the film was a mixed bag of emotions . since i am not partial to sitcom style movies , no matter how conventional or unconvential they may seem to be , i found myself swaying back and forth , liking some parts of the film and resenting other parts , and just like everything about the film , i was ultimately left in a paradoxical mood . 
1	the mystical theme of evil was never fully developed , but the film was well photographed and acted , and the story was very creepy . there were many odd touches that worked very well , that director freddie francis added to this original screenplay by jonathan rumbold & peter spenceley . there's also a surprise ending that fits in well with the film's theme of man's inhumanity . it makes for an above-average horror flick , one that horror fans in particular might enjoy more than others . 
2	little angel , the latest offering from german film maker helke misselwitz , is a poignant , powerful character study , as well as a look at the potentially debilitating effects of loneliness . distinguished by strong acting and an even stronger script , little angel slowly-but- surely pulls the viewer into its grim , grimy , everyday world and keeps us there as this tragic tale follows its inevitable trajectory . for the audience , this is a voyeuristic , fly-on-the-wall experience . it's a powerful way to build a character , and it works to perfection . as the movie progresses , we experience ramona's ups and downs with her . this isn't the kind of film that engages its viewers on a purely intellectual plane . a fleet of supporting characters populate little angel , but the focus never wavers from ramona and andrzej . susanne lothar's performance is especially noteworthy -- she becomes ramona in every way that is important , giving herself to the role . the complexity and depth of her character is due in equal part to misselwitz's perceptive script and lothar's memorable interpretation of it . we have all experienced loneliness at one time or another -- it's one aspect of the human experience that anyone can relate to , and that makes ramona's plight all-the-more immediate . little angel offers a slice of many aspects of life : beauty and ugliness , joy and tragedy , passion and pain . ramona's story touches the heart without ever resorting to manipulation , and that's the singlemost outstanding characteristic of little angel . the movie , currently playing the international festival circuit , is worth seeking out . 
0	you'll check your watch frequently waiting for something to happen in leslie woodhead's abysmal documentary , endurance , and you'll still be checking it when the closing credits roll . if there were a cinematic dullness scale , this movie would reside just one notch ahead of the rating for a blank screen . gebrselassie deserves much better than this lame attempt at a movie . the best one can say of the film is that it undoubtedly has good intentions . but , regardless of the filmmaker's plans , the result is a docu-drama that robs the viewers of their time as they stare at a movie without a single compelling moment . even when , toward the end , we finally get to see him race , the movie saps all of the life and vitality out of the scenes . his big victory at the 1996 olympics in atlanta is drained of energy by the editing of the film and the sound . most of the movie consists of a badly reenacted story of his life . the filmmakers , incorrectly , assume that the film's images as so interesting that they can get away with having no narration and almost no dialog . this is a huge mistake . an even larger error is made in the amount of time allocated to completely uninteresting activities . the camera dwells on each activity as if we had never seen it before . we get the point that gebrselassie grew up in poverty , but do we have to devote the first 80% of the movie to it ? the filmmakers haven't a clue as to how to tell a coherent story . the confusing one they lay before us never draws us in or makes us care . as we watch , the people in it are stripped of their humanity by the film's lackluster and patronizing presentation . although it sounds good , one suspects that they could have played absolutely anything , and it would have been welcome . if the american film institute ever compiles a list of the worst documentaries ever made , endurance would have to be considered a top contender . the film is mainly in ethiopian with english subtitles . it is rated g as there is nothing to offend anyone . my son jeffrey , age 10 , complained that the film was confusing and contained no plot or point . he gave it 0 stars and said that he found nothing interesting in the entire movie . 
0	the reason he had so much control is because he would not produce her play claiming it was " too disgusting even for us . " i can not even repeat its name in this g rated review of an r rated film . the best thing going for this basically worthless film is the strong and effective performance by lili taylor . the slow editing ( keith reamer ) and the almost non-existent music ( john cale ) of the film is in sharp contrast to the vibrant and energetic trailers for the picture . i was impressed by the trailers . warhol is right about the play being crude . the longest excerpt we hear has to do with everyone eating excrement . i had a lot of trouble trying to figure out why this picture was made . what was the director trying to accomplish ? i finally decided perhaps the message was about the shallowness of the 60s drug culture in general and of andy warhol in particular . he answers , " it's easier than painting . " i shot andy warhol runs 1 : 40 . it is rated r . there is nudity , explicit sex of many flavors , some violence , bad language , and lots of smoking and drug usage . i would only let quite mature teenagers see it . i can not recommend this film whose only claim to fame , other than the great performance by lili taylor , is its attempt to shock and to show us the nihility of the 60s drug culture and of andy warhol . for taylor's performance i give the movie * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 16 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	just a few years ago , my son turned on to one of my all-time favorite cinematic series , star wars . these pictures had everything , including , but not limited to , exotic locales -- remember world-wide travel was not that prevalent then , lush sets , high tech gadgets , beautiful people , beaucoup sexual innuendo , heavy action and non-stop entertainment . no , set to a seductive calypso beat , could not have been a better introduction to the series . the smooth movie goes down as easily as one of those potent caribbean drinks . even the show's obvious flaws -- most of the fight choreography is atrocious , for example -- become part of its simple charms . it is as if the studios knew how popular the shows would become , so they took their time with the first one in making the lead character accessible and worth caring about . as he thwarts every foe with grace , wit , and style , the audience laps it up . connery makes bond so inherently likable that no matter how outlandish his maneuvers , he never seems in any danger of overacting . no personalized car with on-board water cannon , fog making machine , or any other gizmo . although not necessarily the first thing that comes to mind when you think of a bond picture , one part that rarely disappoints is the music . no . not only does it set the mood and the pace perfectly , but it leaves you humming the tunes when the show is over . the perfect pacing draws you quickly into the story's characters . as they sing easy-going caribbean songs like " underneath the mango tree , " jamaica at first seems an odd choice for a spy thriller . the result is certainly one of the more relaxed of the bond films . this time it surrounds a device that the nefarious dr . no uses that can force missiles off course . when we first see her perfectly shaped body in an athletic looking two piece swimsuit encasing her golden tan , the natural reaction is " wow ! " even the locals will not go there thanks to the presence of a fire-breathing dragon . in a winner for the story's most ridiculous but undoubtedly most realistic part , the jamaicans wear loose fitting short sleeve shirts in the hot caribbean weather while the outsiders torture themselves for the sake of fashion by wearing gray suits with long sleeved shirts and ties . in the bond films , especially the early ones , sex is a kiss with a cutaway before the action starts and a cut back after it is over . in an age where this genre of show often degenerates into a special effects extravaganza , it is refreshing to see one , like dr . no , where brains can be characters' salvation . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the film was great ! too much kissing . 
1	if you've always been curious about exactly what heaven and hell look like , what dreams may come offers some intriguing suggestions . in director vincent ward's long cinematic sermon on the advantages of a moral life , the movie depicts heaven as a happy , colorful landscape painting and hell as an eerie , gray , holocaust graveyard overflowing with talking heads . the rarely subtle film shows two dead children from inside their coffins during the opening credits . both are deeply scarred characters who share their troubles with us in almost every scene . if the movie were involving , it could have been the downer of the year . instead , it stays at the level of visual technical achievements with the figures in it about as real as those in art gallery paintings -- lovely to look at , but nothing to get concerned over . gooding , like the rest of the fine actors , is largely wasted in a movie that works only at an ethereal level . the magical film is artistically surreal but only sporadically realistic . the script by ronald bass , based on richard matheson's novel , could have used a little more levity and should have given the characters some credible depth . " i'm in dog heaven . " this delightfully natural humor is regretfully absent in most of the movie . the story's pop messages include such trite ones as , " good people end up in hell because they can't forgive themselves . " ( okay now , let's all forgive ourselves so we will get to pass through the pearly gates successfully . whew , that's a collective load off our shoulders . ) the film shows us a heaven that is a blend of the nineteenth-century landscape paintings of turner and cole mixed with impressionistic touches . not only is it gorgeous , the paint isn't even dry yet . these dazzling images are among the loveliest and most innovative hollywood has created in years . with michael kamen's dramatic music and yvonne blake's sumptuous costumes for the afterlife , the film works best when viewed as grand opera as illustrator maxfield parrish might have staged it . moral rules , it seems , are filled with fine print . a movie filled with absolutely stunning imagery , it is strangely cold and unengaging despite all its beauty . still , the pedantic script's tedium is more than offset by the handsomeness of the production . what dreams may come is a feast for the eyes even if not a particularly filling meal for the mind . it is rated pg-13 for thematic elements involving death , some disturbing images , profanity including the f-word and brief nudity . the film would be fine for teenagers . 
0	as soon as she finished that line , i knew this film was either headed to being a successful off-the-wall comedy or a dog , but i feared it would be the later . i should say upfront , that schrader's is not american actress mary-louise parker's twin sister , but she sure does look like her . fanny has a severe insecurity complex . she tells the audience , " i wouldn't fall in love with me if i were you . " fanny makes a point of letting the audience know that she is not particular about the man she is looking for either . don't you hear it ticking ? " on the other hand , the insides of the all of the apartments look solidly middle class as does fanny's clothing . why the set decorator ( claus kottmann ) and the costume designer ( siegbert kammerer ) did this , i have no idea , but i did not buy it . it is dark , gray , and ugly . although this fascination with suicide worked in harold and maude , here it comes off as a cheap way to enliven doris doerrie's ridiculous script . i think maria schrader demonstrates significant potential by being able to shine through this miserable material . as for the other actors and actresses in this movie , if i never see any of them again , i do not think i will have missed much . the story is mess from start to finish and is filled with characters i did not care about in the least . nobody loves me drags on at 1 : 44 . it does not have an mpaa rating , but it is a soft r show with a little sex and nudity . it would not harm any teenager , but i do not recommend that anyone waste their time with this show . it has an interesting concept and nothing more . i give it one half of a * solely for schrader's performance . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	some countries seem to specialize in certain movie genres . as the entire world knows , america can make special effects blockbusters like no other country . for low key , working class comedies full of droll humor , few countries can equal the irish . the first two novels were made into the well received movies , the commitments and the snapper . ( look on the back of the fish 'n chips and burger van in the van , and you'll see " beware the snapper " as a little in-joke to remind the audience of the last movie while also poking fun at the merchandise . ) been made redundant . " donal o'kelly plays bimbo , the more serious of the two . together the two of them craft a good spirited comedy . although it turns somewhat bittersweet towards the end , the chemistry between them hums like a smooth running and happy little engine . their story is rarely exciting , but always congenial . director stephen frears ( dangerous liaisions ) has the good sense to never try to make the movie more than it is , a small tale of two friends coping through some troublesome times . it is in the minutia , which he handles with such a deft touch , that the show has its charm . larry feels his family needs to economize but isn't even willing to substitute chicken for turkey for the christmas dinner . he asks rhetorically , " what's christmas without a turkey ? " ( the beauty and the challenge of the film is the thick irish accents . yes , the lack of a motor is one of its many deficiencies . except for one outlandish episode where a accidentally fried nappy ( which we americans call a diaper ) is sold as fried fish , most of the humor is so understated that it rarely elicits more than a small giggle from the audience . this lack of any substantial laughs in a comedy will probably be its downfall . those used to broad comedy with slapstick humor are likely to be disappointed by this subtle story . but those willing to cut it a little slack , will find our two unlikely heroes quite appealing . the beautiful cinematography by oliver stapleton , who did the stunning work in restoration , comes alive in the night sequences . the warm glow of the incandescent light of the interior of the van at night makes larry's and bimbo's business somehow magical . the show ends abruptly . several scenes which you are convinced are just around the corner , never occur . the visual at the conclusion is the picture's best , and one worth savoring . the van runs 1 : 36 but feels shorter . it is rated r for constant use of the f word . the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend this little picture to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	" why can't i just do what i want ? " the only thing that they're sure of is what they don't want , and that is to be like everyone else . although the acting is flawless , the script isn't . flashes of brilliance are interrupted by sections in which the story wanders aimlessly . these flaws are easily forgiven since the movie is so sharp when it clicks . still , i have trouble understanding the absolutely rave reviews that many are giving the movie since this is far from a masterpiece . although i liked it and , indeed , recommend it , it is a candidate for my list of the most overrated films of the year . the director's previous film was the documentary crumb about controversial comic book writer robert crumb . the casting of buscemi might be considered something of an inside joke given his resemblance to crumb . how uncool is that ? " he's kind of cool . " roberta puts down anything remotely resembling traditional art . enid's cartoon drawings are quickly ridiculed as not being substantial . these half-dozen , randomly bent hangers represent nothing less than " a woman's right to choose . " ghost world runs a little long at 1 : 51 . it is rated r for " strong language and some sexual content " and would be acceptable for teenagers . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who didn't find anything in movie to interest him , gave it just 1/2 of a star . he thought it was boring . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	the show is a rich tapestry of subjects and contrasting opinions . you know man , that's what they do best . " his parting words to george are , " i wouldn't expect you to drive to a ku klux klan rally . " perhaps the best part of the film is the lack of conclusions . other than the one sided view of republicans , other issues are introduced and pondered , but the film does not attempt to lead the viewer to any particular point of view . the script by reggie rock bythewood seems happy just to be able to bring all of the subjects up . as in most spike lee movies , there is a lot of music and singing . their washington journey starts off full of high energy and fun . there is even the obligatory fistfight , which i could have done without . his come on line is , " i've always heard that dallas has the finest honeys on the planet . " he sees this as natural male behavior whether single or married and argues with his fellow men , " you tell me what men who like women wouldn't want a little something on the side ? " this is film with so many people in it , it is easy to lose track . most of the show is a talkfest heading no place in particular . in a meandering show , toward the finish it takes a dramatic and unexpected turn . this is quite well done , but spike lee then throws on several extra endings which are only redundant . there is one serious problem with the show . the prints of elliot davis's cinematography have major color problems . there are two long sequences , one lasting ten minutes where the color is so far off that you would refuse to pay for the processing if some lab did this to your film . it is my understanding that this is not some problem with just the print that i saw , but that it is a general problem and an artifact of rushing the show to the theaters in time for the march's anniversary . as a film critic , i see a lot of very low budget pictures including ones where everything is financed on the filmmaker's visa card . none of them have had severe color problems like this picture . the studio should be ashamed of themselves for letting it out in this shape . it is rated r for the some bad language . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the film would be fine for any teenager . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the road home ( wo de fu qin mu qin ) , by acclaimed director zhang yimou ( to live and shanghai triad ) , is an exceedingly modest love story that is saved by its gorgeous filming , haunting scoring and heartfelt acting . although your mind may wander since so little happens , your eyes may tear up during some of the striking visuals . the result is a disappointing film that's still worth seeing . this part is shot in radiant colors , which perfectly capture the rich yellows and golds of an autumn forest . yusheng's mother , di zhao , a petite young beauty , is played with a bright eyed spark by zhang ziyi . the film's pervasive theme music , which repeats every few minutes , could become a sort of chinese water torture if you didn't like it . personally , i didn't care how many dozen times it played , i couldn't get enough of it . a week from now , i suspect that this tune will be the only part of the production that will prove memorable . the film is in mandarin with english subtitles . it is rated g since there is nothing to offend anyone of any age . kids less than 13 , however , are not likely to find much to hold their interest . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the camera theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	united kingdom , 1994 running length : 1 : 29 mpaa classification : no mpaa rating ( sex , violence , mature themes ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 because of the universally negative reaction to incest , it's a subject rarely tackled by motion pictures -- especially when that incest is lesbian in nature . while nancy meckler's film lacks the completeness of peter jackson's , the two movies together represent a fascinating study of parallels in obsession-based murder . one of the most unusual elements of sister my sister is that it's peppered with comic moments . however , rather than lightening the mood , the humor deepens the story's uneasy tone . put simply , we get the feeling that we're laughing when we shouldn't be , and that sensation is exactly what the director is aiming for . intense performances by joely richardson ( i'll do anything ) and jodhi may ( the last of the mohicans ) possess an unsettling quality , and the entire movie leaves a lingering impression . character motivation is not as detailed as in heavenly creatures , and certain elements of the protagonists' pasts remain ambiguous , but there's enough to lend resonance to the climax . the greatest failing of this film is its flat presentation of madame danzard and her daughter . julie walters gives a hilarious , over- the-top performance as a prototypical high society snob , but there's nothing real about madame danzard -- she's a pure stereotype with barely a trace of any human sensibility . this kind of simpleminded portrayal belongs in a different motion picture . meckler is somewhat ambivalent about isabelle , occasionally lumping her with her mother in the caricature mold , but at other times allowing the audience to glimpse a more evenhanded personality . sister my sister is daring , and would have received more attention had the superior heavenly creatures not reached the screen first ( both movies went before cameras at about the same time ) . although those easily offended will find sister my sister unbearable , even the most liberal viewer will leave the theater affected by the naked passions laid bare during the course of the film . 
2	the piano is a film about passion , the most basic and primal element of human nature . no matter how thick the veneer of civilization is , or how deeply-buried beneath layers of social repression those latent emotions are , passion ultimately cannot be denied . this is something that the three principals of this movie learn in various , not-always-pleasant , ways . the piano has powerful emotional themes resonating through it , all dealing with the release of repressed passion . jane campion's story is often stirring and occasionally gut-wrenching ; the latter perhaps to a fault . there is a single visceral scene in this movie which becomes the most stark and enduring image taken from the theater . while definitely an expression of passion , this is perhaps not intended as the single defining moment of the piano , although it may be remembered as such . symbolism abounds , and most of it is clear enough for even the casual viewer to grasp . stewart's rejection of this , like baines' acceptance , defines the basis of who he is . the final scenes of the piano abound with symbols , the recognition of which will help in understanding all the facets of the ending . the three main actors give dazzling performances . to be able to convey this much energy and emotion without ever speaking a word ( except in a pair of short voiceovers ) requires someone of astonishing talent and ability . hunter's ada is every bit as powerful a presentation as anthony hopkins' stevens in the remains of the day . harvey keitel is as good , although the complexities of his character don't allow for quite as obvious a standout performance . sam neill has the most incomplete material to work from , but he does all he can with stewart . like their adult counterparts , child actors come with varying ranges of ability . while not in the category of a valentina scalici ( from il ladro di bambini , and who i have stated is the best child performer i have ever seen ) , ms . paquin is ultimately believable in her role , and a great asset to the film . as good as ms . campion's basic story is , both characterization and technical presentation are lacking . taken in tandem , these flaws prevent the piano from attaining its full potential . stewart never attains three-dimensionality , despite sam neill's best attempts , and baines is occasionally little more than a sounding board for ada's emotions to reverberate off of . flora's personality undergoes a radical shift that , at best , is only partially-motivated by what we see on screen . the editing of the piano is choppy , at times causing the narrative to seem disjointed or confusing . more than one transition is jarringly abrupt . there were several instances when my connection with the film was broken because of this . it's odd that , with a name like the piano , one of the weaknesses is the score . there are instances when michael nyman's themes are inappropriate for the scenes where they are used , and it has been pointed out to me that the new age strains coming from ada's instrument have no place during the time period in which the piano is supposed to have taken place . the piano is a good film with a potent message and occasional splashes of genius , but it is not remarkable experience , except perhaps where holly hunter's performance is concerned . while it's true that individuals will attribute different importance to the various flaws , there exists the distinct possibility that those going to see the piano with the expectation of watching the best movie of the year , will leave the theater disappointed . 
1	i went with low expectations to see little buddha but was quite pleasantly surprised . little buddha is a fairy tale interwoven with a cartoon like telling of the buddha story . like most fairy tales , or operas for that matter , you must be able to suspend disbelieve if you are to proceed . think about it . this is a beautiful film written and directed by bernardo bertolucci who did the last emperor . it was easy to forget logic and go with the story . i am familiar with western judeo-christian beliefs but knew nothing of buddha or any of the legend surrounding his life . i found that part fascinating . i do not know what liberties bertolucci took with the buddha story , but i found it pretty bizarre besides being fascinating , but then again , any religious story probably sounds strange to someone who knows nothing about that religion . bridget fonda's acting ranges from good to excellent . she is good here . isaak gives a blah performance . the little boy is okay . i think keanu reeves ( e . g . , in much ado about nothing - like his acting abilities ) is a terrible actor . this movie confirmed my opinion . it is the monks ( led by ruocheng ying ) and the story itself that make this movie come alive . the imaginative script is by bernardo bertolucci , mark peploe , and rudy wurlitzer . it shows the monks as real people who joke , fall asleep accidentally , and have to be reminded to take their medicine yet have almost a mystic quality about them nevertheless . little buddha runs 2 : 03 and editing by pietro scalia should have been tighter . i give the movie * * 1/2 and recommend it to anyone with an open mind . it is correctly rated pg . i think kids over say 8 would enjoy it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : june 10 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	screenplay : charles leavitt , based on the novel _freak the mighty_ by rodman philbrick . director : peter chelsom . mpaa rating : pg ( mild profanity , adult themes ) running time : 95 minutes . the resulting film was mawkish and erratic , sacrificing strong and consistent characterizations for cheap slapstick and even cheaper melodrama . i love the cosmic symmetry that allows me to point out exactly what's right about one film because of what went wrong in another . yet the mighty is superior to simon birch in almost every way . it's a family film about triumph over adversity that earns honest emotional response . you might expect the mighty to be just a glorified " afterschool special , " unless you knew the work of director peter chelsom . the auteur behind the eccentric gems hear my song and funny bones gives the story a fantastic flair , with images of the symbiotic duo crossing swords with enemies in their flights of fancy . even the scenes clearly designed to draw cheers , including a gym class basketball game , somehow seem too surreal to be manipulative . the mighty has more than its share of messages , yet it rarely feels like a " message movie . " it has more than its share of shifts in tone , yet it rarely feels inconsistent . give credit both to chelsom and to his two young leads , who deliver a pair of superb performances . kieran culkin ( yes , _his_ younger brother ) finds the fine line between intelligent and obnoxious -- a line most young actors trample into dust -- to make kevin an appealing protagonist . elden henson , however , provides the film's real emotional core as the deeply troubled max . ably assisted by restrained , dignified supporting turns from stone , rowlands and stanton , culkin and henson create a solid dramatic foundation . the sub-plot's darker tone , involving murder and kidnapping , are challenging enough to fit into a family film without gandolfini playing the role as a leering monster . yet even then chelsom rallies to give us a potent climax without an ounce of fat . the power of the story , and its convincing bonds of friendship , make teary-eyed actors and sweeping musical cues utterly unnecessary . the mighty builds two characters worth caring about . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	one , conspiracy theories will abound , and two , this will be a fascinating show . think of him as oliver stone smoothed down a bit . you may think you know the answer . you may be wrong . the ending is excellent . i am a big fan of courtroom drama of which there is not near enough in the modern cinema . in music box , the trial makes up the large central portion of the picture . it is excellent and the best part of the show . the acting for jessica lange , which got her an academy award nomination , is unsettling . the performance by armin mueller-stahl is as powerful although not as elaborate as lange's . he has a presence and a look which simultaneously evokes contradictory feelings of confidence and doubt in the audience . watch especially how much energy radiates from his eyes . there are a lot of excellent minor performances , donald moffat as the anti-semitic father-in-law harry talbot , lukas haas as the trusting son mikey talbot , and my personal favorite , j . s . block as judge silver , showing us how a judge in a controversial case should act . this could have served as judge ito's training film . the script by hollywood's controversial writer joe eszterhas is strictly edge of the seat material . overall , the effect of the script , the direction , and all of the acting make for a highly moving film . music box runs a little too long at 2 : 04 . it is rated pg-13 for a few bad words and a controversial subject . there is no sex , nudity , or violence , but they talk about some horrific crimes . the show would be fine for teenagers . for kids younger than that , consider the material about the crimes in making a judgment , but in no case would i recommend the movie to kids under 10 . i recommend the movie to you and award the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	wondrous , yes ; but perhaps frightening as well . for blink to work , the viewer has to be willing to accept a rather dubious plot device : that emma's eye/brain coordination is so screwed up that it occasionally takes as much as a full day before she recognizes a face . those that find this a tremendously silly proposition will have difficulty wading through the movie's improbabilities . fortunately , director michael apted is skillful enough that his use of such an unlikely premise is masked with adequate flair . with the exception of some insipid dialogue ( snippets of which infect the entire production ) , blink starts out well . it's fascinating to watch as a blind woman regains her sight . apted tries to present the world from her perspective and , while this is interesting in the beginning , he does it a little too often . much of the plot follows a fairly standard formula--cop and victim meet , they argue , then they fall in love--but every time blink looks like its going to fall into a typical cliche of the genre , it somehow manages to avoid the trap . that's not to say that there aren't times when things become obvious or predictable , but at least the ending shows a little originality , and the motive is unique . at times , hallstrom seems almost superfluous . ms . stowe manages to portray emma as forthright and independent , and she adequately conveys the mixed emotions that result from her newfound sense of sight . nevertheless , there's an occasional lack of passion in the performance , and there are a few scenes where she isn't convincing . throughout her career , ms . stowe has excelled at playing supporting characters . placed in the lead role for the first time , occasional faults are magnified . aidan quinn is something of a nonentity . his character isn't particularly likable , as is made apparent in the opening scene , but quinn vacillates between playing hallstrom as an arrogant jerk and a sensitive hero . the screenplay is undoubtedly part of the problem--writer dana stevens constantly has trouble with character consistency--but quinn never gets a good handle on his role . unfortunately , apted isn't as strong in directing his actors as he is setting a mood . blink is an adequate thriller . it offers a reasonable one-hundred six minutes worth of entertainment , with a few chills but not many surprises . although this isn't a breakthrough performance for madeleine stowe , she manages to pull off the role of emma in a mostly-convincing fashion . nevertheless , except for the often-haunting and claustrophobic atmosphere , there's little special here . considering the general low quality of entries into the genre , however , you could easily do worse . 
2	even though it's eminently suitable for family viewing , the latest adaptation of anna sewell's black beauty could be a film in search for an audience . adults may avoid this movie because it's g-rated , based on a children's book , and has actors speaking with british accents . children , on the other hand , may stay away because there are no musical numbers with singing animals , no mcdonald's happy meals , and actors who speak with british accents . in many ways , black beauty is almost more of an adult movie than one for children . restless kids are going to have difficulty sitting through several of the slower portions , and the overall tone is more somber than anything put out by disney . even the lion king , with its shakespearean leanings , is ultimately lighter than black beauty . not the first adaptation of the classic story , caroline thompson's is the most faithful . it's a tale of friendship , abuse , betrayal , and redemption . the real stars of this film are the horses , and the humans , no matter how heartfelt their performances , are barely noticed . tremendous camerawork by alex thomson and an effective score from danny elfman ( this sounds nothing like his batman music ) add to black beauty's luster . the film has the look and feel of something out of dickens , with a theme to match . hopefully , black beauty will get the attention it deserves . regardless , this motion picture has a lot more to offer than the typically-available brainless family entertainment . it's worth the price of admission even if you don't have a kid to bring with you . entertainment of this sort knows no age limits . 
1	a simple and sometimes poignant tale , the story is completely overwhelmed by the picture's lush visuals . much like martin scorsese's kundun , the film's enjoyment stems mainly from its look . the story is so minimal that it is barely present . the movie consists of small vignettes . most scenes celebrate the joys of the iranian countryside , where the film is set . the problem with all of this pastoral beauty is that , with the absence of much dialog , the picture is frequently sleep inducing . the gripping ending makes the film much more intense than its pg rating would imply . nevertheless , it is the best part of the movie . the film is in persian with english subtitles . it is rated pg for thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 11 and up . 
1	screenplay : nat maudlin and larry levin , based on the stories by hugh lofting . director : betty thomas . mpaa rating : pg ( profanity , adult humor ) running time : 85 minutes . i'm not sure exactly when it happened , but a sad development has seized juvenile comedy as we know it . only token film-makers like the farrelly brothers ( kingpin , dumb and dumber ) have resisted what i call the john hughes-ification of low-brow humor : the insistence upon wrapping up 90 minutes of crude sight gags with a great big group hug and an edifying life lesson . in effect , it's a con playing on the low-level guilt of viewers who want to convince themselves that the bodily function humor is just a necessary evil on the way to an important social message . and i'll bet they read playboy for the articles , too . some viewers obviously manage to get past this dichotomy . personally , i don't want any metaphorical chocolate in my peanut butter . doctor dolittle takes a salty little dab of peanut butter and smothers it in chocolate syrup . doctor dolittle has plenty of predictable charms , most of them connected to the digitally-doctored menagerie surrounding the good doctor . the a-list voice talent -- norm macdonald as the sarcastic family mutt , albert brooks as a depressed circus tiger , julie kavner and garry shandling as a pair of bickering pigeons -- offers plenty of appeal , though prominently-featured chris rock as a guinea pig can only crank up the volume on his rather boring lines . it's hardly classic comedy , but it's effective enough for a few belly laughs , even with the obligatury use of various animal calls of nature by screenwriters nat maudlin and larry levin . low-brow comedy isn't the problem ; lacking the nerve to stick with low-brow comedy is . actually , it would have been nice if murphy had gotten back to any tricks at all . murphy can be a brilliant comic performer , but he works his finest magic as an instigator . aside from a few token moments of frantic behavior , he is asked merely to react in doctor dolittle , to play straight man to the talking animals , which is a huge waste of his talents . i suppose it made sense to try another wacky re-make after the success of the nutty professor , and i suppose it made sense to hope that director betty thomas ( the brady bunch movie , private parts ) could work similar slight-of-hand with another premise that didn't sound very promising . it may have seemed like a good idea at the time , but doctor dolittle only works until you realize it would have worked much better with murphy -- and the whole film -- let off the leash of excess sincerity . when the guffaws give way to solemnly-intoned platitudes , it spoils all the fun of a good pigeon-crap-on-the-head gag . of course , i only watch for the important social message . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	father of the bride ii is a surprisingly excellent and touching comedy . unlike the 1991 movie which is broadly written for maximum laughs , the sequel is an even better movie that relies for its charm on its poignancy although there are innumerable hilarious moments as well . father of the bride ii had me in tears twice . on the other hand , i rolled over in laughter so loud in one scene that i scared the woman in front of me . a very affecting and effective movie . the setup of father of the bride ii is a simple one . as matty puts it , " i'm 4' 6 " , i don't shave , i don't have a job , and i'm going to be an uncle . isn't there something weird about that ? " the sale of their home and its ramifications are both touching and extremely funny . the writers will really surprise you with what they do with this one . perhaps one of the reasons this movie works so well for me are all of the similarities with my own life . george is my age almost to the day . to be honest though , i have had no problems with harassment by ferraris . the movie is filled with touching scenes . it is filmed as a series of flashbacks starting at age 4 . the cinematography ( elliot davis ) and the editing ( stephen rotter ) are absolute perfection . kimberly williams does a wonderful job as a role model of what every parent hopes their children turn into - sweet , smart , good looking , happy , and successful . the twist in the story that makes it click is that george and nina find that they too are expecting a baby which pleases nina but scares george . it's the 90s . " , the movie deals straightforwardly and effectively with many serious subjects . the best part of the entire movie are the birthing scenes at the end . times of major emotion and uproarious laughter in the theater . he can deliver lines as well as facial expressions without speaking that alternatively have you in stitches one minute and ready to cry the next . a brilliant performance . the rest of the cast is equally strong . keaton , who can be too cutesy or quirky , is carefully directed and delivers her warmest performance since reds . martin short again plays franck egglehoffer , but in the sequel he is not so obnoxious . in this film , he does not go overboard as he so frequently does , and gives the only lovable and touching as well as comedic role i have ever seen him in . in a minor but well cast role we have jane adams as dr . megan eisenberg . father of the bride ii is a joy to behold . a life-affirming film whose almost last line is " life doesn't get much better than this . " amen . it is rated pg , but it is a totally non-offensive show that should have been rated g . there is no sex , nudity , violence , bad language , or smoking . you could take a kid of any age , but given the story , i suspect it will only interest kids over say 8 . i recommend the movie to you strongly , and i award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 8 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	screenplay : scott alexander and larry karaszewski . director : tim burton . it's hard to imagine a more unlikely subject for a film biography than edward d . wood jr . when i think of bio-pics , i think gandhi , my left foot , malcolm x--epic tales of great and inspirational figures . the director of plan 9 from outer space does not seem to be cut from quite the same cloth . the great surprise of ed wood is that in his own unique and twisted way , director tim burton has turned one of the worst filmmakers of all time into one of those inspirational figures . rather than holding wood up to ridicule , burton makes his life an example of artistic integrity , an extremely entertaining look at an auteur unlike any other . with lugosi and girlfriend dolores fuller ( sarah jessica parker ) , ed makes glen or glenda ? , a phenomenally incompetent melodrama . but ed is undaunted by the ridicule of others , and forges ahead to make more films , as well as forging a friendship with the ailing lugosi . burton based his vision for ed wood on one question : what if someone had all the drive of orson welles , but none of the talent ? that question , and its answer , are what make edward d . wood jr . 's story a comedy rather than a tragedy . after every clumsy take becomes not simply a paradigm for self-delusion , but a reminder that sometimes process is as important to art as product . the sincerity with which wood speaks to welles as an equal , and his determination to stay true to his vision , make him anything but pathetic . yet burton manages to tell another story in ed wood , that of the curious friendship between ed and bela lugosi . it is truly an example of mutual need--wood needs lugosi to lend his movies credibility ; lugosi needs wood to give him work , any work--but it's also something even more touching . it is respect which is the greatest gift ed gives him , and laundau's portrayal of his slow return to humanity is one of the finest pieces of acting this year . it is ed wood's niftiest accomplishment that it links these two stories so effortlessly . ed wood's uniquely wonderful naivete comes from the fact that he never fully grasps that hollywood was a business first . he is unable to understand how lugosi could be unable to find work , because to ed , his talent is all that should matter . ed wood is occasionally quite slow-moving , and loses much of its steam in its final twenty minutes . but the affection in burton's telling of this tale is infectious , and makes one wish more talented contemporary filmmakers were as relentlessly individual . 
0	psst ! can i interest you in some hot tattoos ? writer/director jo sol's tatawo is about sex , nudity , drugs and , most of all , tattoos . there's probably a plot hidden somewhere beneath this tattoo-laden tale , but you couldn't prove it by me . when the characters speak , they are less than illuminating . about the only reason to see the film is for the eye candy . as haunting music plays , it is hard not to fall under the erotic spell that she weaves . but this is a transitory pleasure and does little to compensate for the dreadful dullness of the rest of the movie . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
0	cast : halle berry , peter greene , christopher mcdonald , clive owen , charles hallahan , frankie faison , clea lewis director : amy holden jones producers : roger birnbaum and julie bergman sender screenplay : amy holden jones cinematography : haskell wexler music : john frizzell u . s . distributor : hollywood pictures the rich man's wife is one of those overplotted thrillers that works best if you're unfamiliar with film noir . nothing here is remotely original ( a fact that shouldn't be unexpected ) , and , for a seasoned movie-goer , watching the film becomes a guessing game of which movie is going to be " borrowed from " next . bits and pieces of everything from fatal attraction to the usual suspects appear here , with little more than a few capable performances and a silly script to hold them together . as for the ending . . . well , i'll get to that later , but , suffice it to say , it's the biggest problem of all . much of the rich man's wife is too hard to swallow , especially for those who are used to the typical contrivances of the genre . i just want to tell the truth . " such an inexcusable credibility blunder , coming so early in the film , immediately puts the viewer in a cynical frame of mind . strangely , there are at least a half dozen scenes in " josie's account " that she isn't involved in . this sort of sloppy storytelling is evident throughout . however , the major difference is that , while everything in bryan singer's 1995 feature built logically to the big revelation , here , the " shocking " twist feels like a cheat -- something intended to throw the viewer off balance and obfuscate several of the movie's plot deficiencies . believe me , this particular device works a lot better with a well thought-out script like the usual suspects than something silly and derivative like the rich man's wife . whatever its faults , the rich man's wife is nicely-photographed . crafts an effectively dark and edgy mood . a lot of this film takes place at night , and wexler uses this to his advantage , capturing several memorable shots on small , moonlit country roads winding through a brooding forest . alas , john frizzell's melodramatic score frequently spoils the effect . as josie , halle berry is appealing , which is the most desirable trait for an " innocent victim " character . peter greene , who has been typecast as a sicko/psycho with appearances in clean , shaven , pulp fiction , and under siege 2 , isn't required to explore virgin territory . there's an unpleasant scene where cole slashes open his palm then licks the blood out of the wound . christopher mcdonald is suitably abrasive as tony , but , like greene , the material doesn't challenge him . the rich man's wife is the sort of movie that should have gone straight to video . it's not fundamentally all that different from the andrew stevens/shannon tweed thrillers that are popular with the rental crowd . and , although this picture aspires to be a serious film noir , all it does is remind us how easily a formulaic premise can be transformed into a hopeless mess . 
2	" don't forget , i'm a lawyer . dark comedies are among the most overused genres in hollywood . many directors think that all they need to do is to turn down the lights , get a bunch of angst-filled actors , find an outlandish script and , voila , they've got a film noir a la quentin tarantino and a recipe for instant riches . although many have failed , director peter o'fallon manages to make an intelligent and funny picture out of well-worn materials . suicide kings , which has nothing whatsoever to do with suicide , delights sheerly through the strength of its execution rather than the freshness of its plot . they know who they are abducting , but they do not quite appreciate his cleverness or his tenacity . walken , who manages to shine in movies good and bad , is at the top of his form here . although he spends almost the entire picture lashed to a chair , his words and his devious smile command our complete attention . this fast paced film is a lot of fun , and walken seems to be enjoying every minute of it . in a scene reminiscent of pulp fiction , vecchio argues in his car with his sidekick about a wide variety of issues from why vecchio paid $1500 for a pair of " fish skin " boots to why he gave $500 to a bum with a bucket . leary , in a beautifully controlled performance , keeps the repartee going without ever missing a beat . the already complicated plot gets even more so when barrett finds out that there's an " inside player . " i figured it out who it was right away , but that isn't important . it is the dynamics and the tension that ensues that creates rewarding viewing , not the mystery . at one point , barrett , taped to the chair , fusses to his incompetent hosts that he's about to die of boredom . although his complaint turns out to be a ruse , boredom is a calamity unlikely to afflict the audience . it is rated r for profanity and sporadic , strong violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
2	whenever a motion picture tackles a literary classic of any genre , fans of the written work hold their collective breaths , hoping for the best , but dreading the worst . on rare occasions , something like the godfather emerges -- a movie that not only fulfills the promise of the book , but improves upon it . unfortunately , most of the time , we're saddled with atrocities like bram stoker's dracula or leo tolstoy's anna karenina . and , while it's unfair to lump science fiction writer robert heinlein into the same category as tolstoy , the author is a recognized great in his chosen genre , and 1959's starship troopers represents one of his best-known novels . so what about the film ? those anticipating a rigorous adaptation will be dismayed . on the other hand , anyone in the mood for a " popcorn movie " experience will find that starship troopers fills the role handsomely . probably the best way to approach starship troopers is to divorce it from its intelligent and gripping pedigree . many of the most intellectually stimulating aspects of the book have been stripped away , and those that remain are only shadows of their former selves . viewers offended by the " watering down " of themes in this summer's superlative motion picture version of contact will be horrified by what has happened here . nevertheless , taken on its own terms , the movie entity starship troopers offers an enjoyable two hours . at its best , the film recaptures the kind of taut , visceral thrills offered by james cameron's aliens . at its worst , it replicates the feel of a futuristic episode of tv's beverly hills 90210 . starship troopers represents director paul verhoeven's comeback attempt after the disastrously-received nc-17 cult favorite , showgirls . this time around , verhoeven returns to the genre that has been most kind to him . starship troopers is his third science fiction endeavor , following in the footsteps of robocop and total recall . and , as was true for both of those films , verhoeven applies his own unique style to the material . much of starship troopers is presented tongue-in-cheek , and the level of violence and gore ( bodies being ripped limb-from-limb and so forth ) is so extreme that viewers will quickly become desensitized to it . while the early sequences of starship troopers can seem like a prime time soap opera , complete with cheesy dialogue and unconvincing character development , it's clear that verhoeven knows what he's doing . none of this is played completely straight ; at times , starship troopers' first half-hour treads a line between overblown melodrama and parody . plus , there are the robocop-like propaganda " news breaks " that are used to provide expository material and advance the narrative . although none of the characters are fleshed out much beyond the comic book level , we nevertheless find our sympathies aligning with them . the largely no- name cast is not heavy on dramatic acting ability , but everyone is appealing and enthusiastic . the stars of starship troopers , especially van dien and dina meyer , manage to maintain a certain level of human interest in a film that eventually becomes special effects-driven . we've seen this stuff many times before , most recently in g . i . the most memorable sequence of this segment is a co-ed shower scene designed to remind us that verhoeven has no compunction about displaying the naked human body , even in a science fiction epic . eventually , we get to the action . if viewers are going to gripe about any aspect of starship troopers , their complaints will be registered against the first half of the film , not the second . once the war starts , there's hardly any time for relaxation . verhoeven orchestrates the battles between cgi aliens and human actors with consummate skill , creating extended sequences that crackle with tension and excitement . starship troopers is essentially an old-fashioned war movie in a science fiction setting , and the film makers adhere to many of the conceits of that genre . the humans are good and the bugs are bad , and there's little room for sentimentality amidst all the machismo . john wayne would have felt very much at home . technically , starship troopers is a mixed bag . some of the scenes , such as an endless wave of spider-like aliens swarming across a rocky desertscape or a crippled spaceship breaking in half , involve impressive displays of motion picture magic . on other occasions , however , the effects work looks fake . perhaps we've gotten to the point where we expect such precision and perfection from special effects that anything less is immediately noticeable . in the final analysis , starship troopers is flawed but fun , and , if marketed correctly , will likely make a healthy profit ( although it will be interesting to see how the " r " rating affects its ultimate box-office performance ) . and , while the outline of heinlein's story and many of the characters remain intact , only echoes of the rich and controversial political subtext have survived . if you want content , read the book . if you want a skillfully-directed , fast-paced ride through space and into war , see the movie . in a year when so many blockbusters have disappointed , starship troopers ranks as one of the better examples of lightweight , big budget entertainment . " for me , the cinema is not a slice of life , but a piece of cake . " 
1	the intensity of the all too manipulative script by gregor nicholas , johanna pigott , and james salter focuses on nina's dysfunctional family . even when not violent , serbedzija makes you think ivan is about to explode . " i wanted to do what i wanted to do , no matter what , " she tells us . " it was my moment of freedom . " nina and eddie's romance form the second and most interesting of the narratives . the chemistry between them is touching and believable , and their few love making scenes are beautifully erotic even if only one is explicit . ( the film inappropriately has been tagged with an nc-17 rating , which director gregor nicholas protested and lost . the press kit explains the mpaa appeals board said that one of the film's love making scenes contains " buttock thrusting , " so they felt that they had to rate it nc-17 . given the massive violence in countless r-rated shows , and the more explicit sex and more rampant nudity in many other r-rated films , it seems strange that one motion would make such a difference , but apparently it did . it would seem the mpaa believes it is the latter since the former gets a film the more profitable r-rating and latter condemns the movie to an nc-17 . some newspapers will not even carry advertisements for nc-17 films . ) the third story , which remains no more than an outline , is about eddie's family , his people and his culture . we see them from afar in a few scenes , but we rarely venture into their world . only his beloved whakapapa tree provides a link to this undeveloped part of the story . both of these chinese characters are so badly stereotyped that it becomes embarrassing to watch . the film smolders as if building to an explosive conclusion . when the ending comes , it is remarkably plain and unoriginal and packs little wallop . a bit scary , certainly , but nothing out of the ordinary . with a surfeit of stories , the audience is too often shortchanged . an overly ambitious film , it does manage to deliver on the romance even if it too often buries it in the manipulative saga of the brutal family . it is inappropriately rated nc-17 . although there is sex , nudity , violence , profanity , and dope smoking , the level is on a par with most r-rated films and the violence is less . the movie would be fine for mature teenagers . i liked the picture just enough to be able to recommend it and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 2 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	i suppose there are a lot of generation xers who harbor a certain fondness for the old tv cartoon george of the jungle , which ran on saturday mornings in the late '60s and early '70s ( apparently , there were only 17 episodes produced , but they were rerun so often that it seemed like a lot more ) . as a result , it was only to be expected that in this era of re-hashing tv products for the big screen , someone would stumble upon george . the outcome is a live-action re-interpretation of the cartoon that , despite changing numerous details , remains faithful to the spirit of its inspiration . however , perhaps the most surprising thing about this movie is that it's far more entertaining than one might reasonably expect given the premise . disney is stuck in a remake rut , and some of their recent efforts ( 101 dalmatians and that darn cat in particular ) have been less-than- inspired . and , while george of the jungle isn't likely to top many critics' end-of-the-year top 10 lists , it's a breath of fresh air coming from a studio that has become known for its stagnant , family values- oriented treacle . george of the jungle possesses both an edge and a sense of self-mocking that's unusual for any feature , live or animated , that emerges from under the mouse's protective umbrella . arguably , the best thing about the original george of the jungle was the theme song , and it has been retained in its full glory ( albeit slightly altered -- some of the lyrics aren't the same ) . however , while that's the movie's most recognizable and most frequently-repeated comic routine , george manages to be more than just a one-joke picture . george of the jungle's plot borrows heavily from the likes of king kong , crocodile dundee , and , of course , tarzan . does this sound stupid and silly ? yes , but that's the whole point , and director sam weisman ( bye bye , love ) , his cast , and crew all recognize it and revel in it . by adopting the tone of the cartoon series , george of the jungle manages to appeal to children , while some of the unexpectedly clever humor will keep adults from becoming too restless . the film pokes fun at everything from " serious " jungle epics to disney's own the lion king . for those who prefer " least common denominator " humor , there's plenty of flatulence , and some of the double entendres are salacious enough to push the limits of the pg-rating . the best running gag doesn't involve george crashing into a tree ; instead , it satirizes one of my least-favorite motion picture devices : the voiceover narrative . the disembodied vocal talent in george of the jungle belongs to keith scott , who sounds astonishingly like don pardo . omniscient and without form , he emotes alliterative , flowery prose with tongue in cheek . some of his observations are slyly amusing ; others are downright hilarious . that's right : a voiceover narrator trading insults with a character . using the same vacuous expression he displayed to good effect in encino man and airheads , brendan fraser is suitably bland as george . the comedy in george of the jungle is not sophisticated , but it is frequently audacious and irreverent . technically , george of the jungle isn't as polished as disney's most recent animated feature , hercules , but , on a certain level , it offers a better entertainment value . the film delights in its own daffiness , and the relatively short running length avoids overkill . the result is one of disney's most lively non- animated features in years . 
0	zzzzzzz . in all the pretty horses , directed without an ounce of inspiration by billy bob thornton , the title almost says it all . the only possible things to admire in it are all the pretty horses since the human actors , with the possible exception of matt damon , deliver mind-numbingly dreary and lifeless performances . the horses look surprisingly average but , nevertheless , manage to upstage the lethargic people in the story . ted tally's thinly plotted and prosaically written script is based on cormac mccarthy's novel . going for the poetic , the script instead achieves the soporific . fully 45 minutes pass before anything of consequence happens , and , even then , it is nothing memorable . this might be somewhat tolerable if the actors were able to breathe any humanity into their roles , but they read their lines with the emotional impact of a teacher calling the roll . damon and cruz show absolutely no chemistry whatsoever on the screen , and the beautiful cruz is completely wasted in her part . the romance between john and alejandra not only doesn't have any sparks , it rarely even smolders . but no sooner have we hoped that this thread to the story will take off than it is dropped like a hot potato . in all the pretty horses , it is hard to know whom to blame more , the actors , the director or the screenwriter . the extra-terrestrial ) would be my choice for the worst part of the production . his lack of energy is so pervasive that it seems to suck the life out of those around him . the problem is that we have long since lost any interest in the characters . whether they live or die , we no longer care . all the pretty horses runs a long 1 : 57 . it is rated pg-13 for violence and some sexuality and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . most kids , however , are going to be bored stiff by the picture . 
1	grief is a difficult subject for a motion picture to address . handled improperly , the emotion can be conveyed as shallow and insincere . a hollywood film's insatiable need to contain feel-good moments invariably diverts scripts in this direction . moonlight and valentino represents a constant struggle between presenting a heartfelt examination of the effects of an unexpected death and manipulating the audience . the function of a solid performance should be to elevate an intelligent script to the next level . in moonlight and valentino , however , the actors save a rather ordinary screenplay from going down the drain . there's nothing radically wrong with the material--it's just mundane and predictable . the movie doesn't contain any surprises , and there are times when the legitimacy of the characters' emotions are in question . those wanting an astonishingly genuine portrait of grief should check out krzysztof kieslowski's vastly superior blue ( the first film in his three colors trilogy ) . as good as elizabeth perkins is here , she can't hold a candle to juliette binoche's emotionally shattered julie . none of these women are the picture of psychological stability , however . perkins isn't moonlight and valentino's sole shining beacon of acting . gwyneth paltrow ( flesh and bone , seven ) gives a wonderful performance , mixing a natural upbeat energy with expressive eyes . paltrow is also blessed with the rare ability to deliver corny lines of dialogue in a completely natural fashion . whoopi goldberg and kathleen turner , however , are not as impressive , with goldberg seeming especially flat . perhaps the most disappointing aspect of this film is the facile manner in which it resolves all the various emotional tribulations . the ending of moonlight and valentino is so silly and over-the-top that it's more likely to have the viewer shaking her or his head than reaching for a kleenex . admittedly , there are moments likely to prompt a tear or two , but there's also quite a bit that doesn't ring true . many of the interpersonal conflicts ( such as lucy and alberta's strained relationship ) feel like scripted contrivances ; it's only when the story delves into the characters' inner turmoil that it strikes the right chord . predictably , the result is a mixed bag--a study of grief and friendship that might have been more effective had the script been better-focused and the director's approach less heavy-handed . 
1	cast : damon wayans , adam sandler , james caan , james farentino , kristen wilson , bill nunn , mark roberts director : ernest dickerson producers : robert simonds screenplay : lewis colick , joe gayton cinematography : steven bernstein music : elmer bernstein u . s . distributor : universal pictures on paper , it sounds like a strange idea : damon wayans and adam sandler paired in a 48 hours/lethal weapon-type buddy/action film . of course , this isn't the first time two comic actors have done this sort of thing ( for a recent example , recall martin lawrence and will smith in the better-to-be-forgotten bad boys ) , and , to be fair , wayans has previously appeared in shoot-'em-ups ( like the last boy scout , opposite bruce willis ) . surprisingly , however , this unlikely match works , due primarily to the charisma of both participants . what doesn't hold up , however , is the ho-hum storyline that wayans and sandler find themselves stranded in . universal pictures has labeled bulletproof as a " comedy action film " , and that's precisely what it is . the problem is , while some of the humor is very funny , there's nothing remotely interesting about the action stuff . it's all redundant and recycled , with a few feeble riffs added in a failed attempt to give things an original look . the only thing to elevate the material slightly is the use of more elaborate jokes than the one-line wisecracks that permeate the genre . a secondary aspect of the film concentrates on the consequences of betrayal , and , while this subject matter is handled somewhat haphazardly , there is a nice little twist that emphasizes it . at times , bulletproof delights in parodying action staples , which makes it all the more disappointing that the film ultimately relies on so many of them in a straightforward , traditional fashion . the homoerotic subtext apparent in many " buddy movies " is toyed with in an inoffensive , over-the-top fashion , as is the formula necessitating that the bad guy has a mole working in the police department . and , if you've seen the previews , you know how funny adam sandler's off-key rendition of " i'll always love you " ( from the bodyguard ) is . that , and the entire sequence surrounding it , represents bulletproof's indisputable high point . sandler and wayans work so well together that a future teaming ( with a more daring script ) would be welcome . he may not be losing interest in this kind of role , but i'm getting bored of seeing him do it . then there's kristin wilson , who , aside from her gorgeous eyes , brings little to the tired love interest role . largely because it provoked a few hearty laughs , i found myself enjoying bulletproof more than i expected . with a little extra imagination invested in the action elements , this could have been a worthwhile " popcorn " endeavor . as things are , it's a marginal feature likely to appeal to those who don't demand much from their comedy action films . anyone hoping for something more meaty will find that bulletproof has a few too many holes . 
1	from time-to-time , as i'm sitting in a theater watching a movie , i experience a profound sense of deja vu . in the case of something like palmetto , which isn't a sequel or a remake , and is based on a novel i know i haven't read , it can be a disturbing feeling . upon reflection , however , the reason is obvious : there's not a moment of originality in the entire motion picture . everything -- characters , situations , settings -- is culled from other sources . this is the kind of movie i've seen on a cable movie channel late at night , although it usually shows a lot more skin and features names like andrew stevens and shannon tweed rather than woody harrelson and elisabeth shue . the intent of director volker schlondorff ( the handmaid's tale ) is to create the newest entry to the burgeoning genre of '90s film noir . however , despite an impressive cast and a talented cinematographer who knows how to play with light and shadow , he's stuck with a b-movie script . instead of making palmetto tongue-in-cheek , which is the tone it cries out for , he plays everything straight . the result is a stale and tedious mystery that surprises viewers with some of its twists only because they're so contrived that they make little sense . the work sounds simple . it sounds like a reasonably straightforward scheme , but , in movies like this , nothing ever goes as planned . the acting is one of the reasons palmetto doesn't work . they put on their serious faces and treat the script like it's dostoevsky . elisabeth shue , on the other hand , goes 180 degrees in the opposite direction , vamping it up and generally acting silly . in fact , sevigny's odette is the lone character who's even a little interesting , and her screen time is sadly restricted . it's hard to feel much sympathy for harry barber . secondly , the guy is as dumb as a wooden post . when it comes to doing things that are blatantly stupid , he's like teenagers who go skinny-dipping in horror movies . he's courting disaster , and , of course , it's more than happy to welcome him in . for a plot like this one to work , audiences not only have to buy into harry's lack of intelligence , but must become party to it . in that way , the screenplay is insulting . there are a lot of twists and turns in palmetto , but most are so hard-to-swallow that they don't have any impact . and , when the truth finally emerges , it isn't likely to cause more than a momentary shrug . ultimately , that shrug is about all this movie deserves . if you really have a burning desire to see it , wait for its appearance on cinemax some night at 2 am , between illicit dreams and body chemistry iv . - ingmar bergman 
1	call it jurassic park jr . , although it's likely to appeal only to a small fraction of the audience that enjoyed steven spielberg's summer mega-hit . where that one was a thrill-a-minute ride filled with spectacular effects and well-orchestrated tension , we're back is an exercise in endurance--not only is it on the dull side , but it has such an overwhelming sense of sweetness that it threatens to become nauseating . it's adults accompanying their offspring who will have problems because , even considering the short length of the film , this is the visual equivalent of a sominex . to say that there's not much of interest going on is an understatement . while the plot is adequate for the under-ten group , it won't do much to satisfy the older viewer . hopefully we're back's single musical number , a nicely jaunty tune , is sufficient to keep the eyelids open . the premise is simple ( and simple-minded ) . with a talented writer like john patrick shanley ( moonstruck ) at the keyboard , i expected more than this trite , vacuous effort . sure , there's an occasional line thrown in for the adults , but that hardly makes the experience worthwhile . the best animated films are those that have something for viewers of all ages . over the years , disney's films have proven that " animation " doesn't equate with " juvenile . " the creators of we're back didn't learn the lesson , so their product turns out to be an overly-long , big screen cartoon . the animation is serviceable , and occasionally above-average . the limitations of a " quickie job " are often apparent , but there are a few nice sequences when it appears that some effort was put into the visual aspects of the story . whoever picked the voices for we're back made some unusual choices , none of which leads to an impressive or inspired performance . mr . cronkite gets an opportunity to say " and that's the way it is . . . " , but i don't recall ms . child ever making mention of " bon appetite . " in a year when there's no new offering from disney , the temptation is to search for something to fill the void . parents should not be fooled into thinking they're getting anything in the same league . if they don't mind fighting off a desire to snooze , their kids probably will enjoy this movie . it's an unfortunate choice to have to make . 
0	the best of the bunch could win the prestigious hitchcock award , something that urban legends : final cut would have no chance of winning . why don't they make sequels of movies whose characters we would like to know more about -- the big chill , for example ? the original urban legend , which is pretty bad , is a decidedly watchable movie compared to its schlocky sequel . with a homogeneous group of young actors playing almost completely interchangeable characters , the movie is slapped together by its director ( john ottman ) and writers ( silvio horta , paul harris boardman and scott derrickson ) like a toddler with duplo blocks . as blood splatters everywhere , the film uses every clich ? in the horror movie writer's manual , from stupid victims to loud noises . there isn't an incident in it that you haven't seen done before , and frequently better . there is simply no reason to waste your money on this movie , which wouldn't be worth seeing if it were the only thing showing in town . if you want to see a good movie about urban legends , urbania , currently playing the art houses , covers this ground with style , even if the film is a thriller rather than a horror movie . if it's a horror movie you're after , perhaps the best ever made , the exorcist , complete with new footage and a new digital soundtrack , is currently playing at your local multiplex . it is rated r for violence , gore , language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
0	and , though each of these characters is unique , there exists at least one common element amongst them ( other than the obvious ) -- they are all three-dimensional creations , individuals who attain a terrifyingly believable life . the credit for this goes to both de niro and to the writers and directors who sketched the outlines that he so ably filled in . therefore , given de niro's track record , it was reasonable to expect good things from him in the fan , director tony scott's followup to last year's blockbuster , crimson tide . in fact , with de niro playing a sociopathic baseball nut , one might be forgiven mistakenly believing that this movie had potential . unfortunately , whatever promise the idea held was lost early in the film making process . the version of the fan to reach movie screens is as unwatchable a thriller as has come to theaters this year . de niro , in fact , is part of the fan's problem . mugging it up for the camera , he gives a tasteless , uninteresting , caricature-like portrayal . after the 1994 strike , one could make the case that baseball no longer deserves anyone's respect , but it's hard to argue that it merits the ghastly treatment handed out by tony scott . the fan treats everyone associated with the game -- fans , announcers , and players -- with contempt . not only is the script superficially nasty , but the game sequences are poorly-filmed , with quick edits used to disguise the fact that hardly anyone involved ( with the possible exception of ex-major leaguer john kruk ) can actually swing the bat . actually , i might have been able to forgive the fan its liberties if it had been remotely enjoyable . but it's not -- the film replaces tension and excitement with reel after reel of tedium . the fan is disjointed , poorly paced , and , at times , completely incoherent . aside from snipes' well-tuned performance and a few clever scenes detailing superstar marketing , this picture is a veritable wasteland . even watching the horror show that the real giants have become during the 1996 season is more fun than this . 
0	while watching loser , it occurred to me that amy heckerling's true genius as a film-maker is casting . she seems to understand instinctively how to find performers the audience will like in spite of their flaws . giving appealing actors an appealing script creates likeable movies . giving appealing actors a script in which their appeal _is_ the movie makes for unexpectedly awful films like loser . naturally , heckerling makes her protagonist an all-around swell guy . i must confess that , for a while , i was suckered in by heckerling's casting . jason biggs is an engaging performer whose unconventional looks make him even easier to embrace ; suvari is a coquette with an undercurrent of intelligence . they're pleasant enough to watch , and heckerling gives us plenty of scenes establishing how nice they are and how nice their respective antagonists aren't . then it gradually becomes clear that there's virtually nothing to loser but scenes of that sort . in theory , loser is a romantic comedy , but there is scarcely a laugh to be found in the entire film ( notable exception : a cameo by a scene-stealing comic actor as a video store clerk ) . instead of taking any time to make the characters' situations funny , heckerling spends 98 minutes making her characters' situations pathetic . she shows none of the ear for quirky dialogue that sparked clueless , nor any of that film's interest in lively plotting ( not surprisingly , since clueless's plot came via jane austen's emma ) . she simply turns the film into a pity party . since loser is a film composed almost entirely of establishing character , you might think that those characters would be interesting , or at least slightly complicated . instead , you have people either so perfect or so unredeemable that there's no reason to watch them . paul isn't just a nice guy , he's flawless ; consequently , he's a central character who does absolutely no growing . dora's unthinking devotion to alcott is the only whiff of basic human frailty to be found in loser , and even that isn't explored in sufficient detail . there's more ambiguity in the 30-second snippet from alan cumming's broadway performance as the emcee in cabaret then there is in the rest of loser it's one thing to turn supporting characters into comic exaggerations ; it's another to flatten your leads into easily digestible mush . and it would help if those comic exaggerations were somehow . . . i don't know . . . comic . still , i spent much of the film holding out the ridiculous hope that heckerling would somehow salvage loser from its tedium and justify my desire to like paul and dora . instead of giving the sequence a knowing wink-a reference to the graduate , a hint that paul is becoming an overly-sensitive clich-heckerling plays it deadly straight . clueless's cher had her self-absorption and manipulative tendencies to balance her cuteness . loser may be a crashing bore , but gee , aren't those two kids swell ? see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	well , in this comedy we get both . not only is dreyfuss made to resemble bob dole , he even represents kansas as well . see the documentary the war room if you want to see the real stephanopoulos in action . here the president is not sure what he is for other than getting good poll numbers and being reelected . it is this part of the show that i found very tiring . when i was able to ignore the pedantic political messages , i found a movie that was hilarious . it has been a long time since i laughed so much . the script by aaron sorkin has one great line after another . this is one of many scenes that had me rolling in the aisles with laughter . douglas and bening are both wonderful in the movie . the chemistry between them is strong and believable in every scene . i do hope the writer gets an the academy award nomination . this is a sight gag that really works . the excellent cinematography by john seale has this scene in steel blues and shadows rather than the rich , rosy , and almost regal colors of the rest of the movie . the lush music by marc shaiman is extremely dramatic and romantic . while the president is walking along making small talk , the music reinforces his power reminding the audience that everything the president does is important . the sets by lilly kilvert show the majesty of the presidency while still giving it many human touches . the costumes by gloria gresham again reinforce this duality . the movie is full of great minor characters like sydney's bottom line boss , leo solomon ( john mahoney ) . one of my favorite minor roles is martin sheen as a . j . macinerney , the president's chief of staff . he does not care what the president stands or does just so long as he gets reelected . the first assistant director of the movie is frank capra iii . clearly reiner intends the movie as sort of a homage to capra , and the parallels are strong . dumbfounded , lewis asks , " it's christmas ? " . leon retorts , " you didn't get the memo ? " it is rated pg-13 for a tiny bit of bad language and for references to sex . there is no nudity or violence . i would have rated it pg , and it would be fine for any kid older than say eight . other than the heavy one sided political messages , i loved the show and recommend it to everyone looking for a good time at the movies . it gets * * * in my book and without the unnecessary political indoctrination , i could have given it another half star . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	antonio banderas , fresh from his awkward performance in the disastrous the thirteenth warrior , makes his inauspicious directorial debut in crazy in alabama . a cinematic hash of stale ingredients lifted from other movies , crazy in alabama includes a wacky woman , a cheesy chase , a racial rebellion , an aspiring actress and stupid-sounding southerners . it's a comedy that's not even close to being funny and a drama about the civil rights movement that's not the least bit moving . griffith seems to specialize these days in giving clich ? d performances in roles that are already written as little more than caricatures . did i mention that the boxed head talks to her ? " it's not fair . it's just the way things are . " mark childress's script , based on his novel , is a treasure trove of eclectic lines -- sometimes ponderously pretentious and other times overly cute . " i just love the sounds of an authentic peasant accent , " a hollywood socialite , played by elizabeth perkins , says of lucille's speech . ) steiger tries without much luck to breathe life into the picture by recasting it as an over-the-top parody . in a movie that wastes vast amounts of money authentically recreating the mid-1960s , why do they let steiger wear the same 1990s designer frames that he has in real-life ? does this abysmal movie have any saving grace ? yes . the dazzling , vintage automobiles , like lucille's cherry red 1964 ford galaxy , look so new that you'd swear no one has ever ridden in them before . enjoy them as much as you can . they're the best part of the production . crazy in alabama runs a long 1 : 51 . it is rated pg-13 for some violence , thematic material , language and a scene of sensuality and would be acceptable for kids 10 and up . 
0	a screwball comedy that is conceptually funny but the more ridiculous it gets as the story picks up its pace the less funny it seems . it never has an edge to it , therefore it seems more like a sitcom than a comedy/drama . drama and characterization are thrown out the window , and contrivances rule the day . . . which allow the home fries to become too tasteless to enjoy . but the film just can't get above the absurdity of its bizarre tale to say much more about why everyone is so screwed up or make the romance between the shy dorian ( the good brother ) and sally feel like it belongs in the film . these two are not believable as lovers , as i saw no sparks flying from them . also the murder plot is just not that funny , and when it becomes more involved , it just becomes a sick joke that goes on for too long ; and , the film ends with a one-too many helicopter scene that couldn't be more ridiculous . the film had all the hints of going somewhere in its opening premise , but it seemed to get stuck , not knowing how to tell a story about what the film really should have been about , the quest of dorian and sally for a normal life despite their dysfunctional up-bringing . being a weirdo does not make one necessarily an interesting character . that is a lesson that this first-time director should take away from this failed effort at dark humor . it should be mentioned that there was one appetizing scene in the movie , as dorian escorts sally to lamaze class and we see them go through those exercises ; it is still a good scene even if it is still not clear why he does so . i just had the feeling he felt sorry for her , rather than that he was in love with her , as i presume the director wanted us to believe . this is a film that might please those who frequent fast-food places and don't worry about their cholestral count and indigestion . in other words , the film moved along at a fast pace , there wasn't much to think about , and might be just the thing for those who would consider this a date movie and not be concerned that it didn't deliver a heavier meal . as for me , i try to eat junk food only when i'm stuck on the road and am starving to death . in this case , since i wasn't stuck on the road , my excuse for eating this junk food was that i was enticed to try something new they were advertising on the menu , but after tasting it , i felt it was just like the same old stuff they always serve in those places , and i just wasn't hungry enough to appreciate that . 
1	for motion pictures that feature gender changes or cross dressing , the chief pleasure is usually watching an actor or actress trying to play someone of the opposite sex . this is true whether it's tony curtis and jack lemmon in some like it hot , dustin hoffman in tootsie , robin williams in mrs . doubtfire , or nathan lane in the birdcage . and it's there that the associate disappoints , because , despite all the hype about whoopi goldberg playing a caucasian male , this heavily made-up , masculine alter-ego is given less than ten minutes of total screen time , with the first appearance not occurring until the film is two-thirds over . the notable absence of goldberg's robert cutty would have been forgivable had the rest of the movie been on a higher level than the one achieved by this trite , familiar presentation . unfortunately , the banality of the material , coupled with the almost complete absence of worthwhile humor , makes the associate seem like a half-hearted rip-off of tootsie where the big moment of revelation takes far , far too long to occur . the associate comes complete with a message that's unlikely to surprise anyone : racism and sexism are prevalent in the business world , and , no matter how talented a person may be , unless they're a white male , they are unlikely to receive a fair shake . or , as one of the characters succinctly puts it , " the women's movement didn't make it down to wall street . " and , while the film gets in a few pointed jabs at the " old boys' network " that does most of the high financial wheeling and dealing , nick thiel's script is content with a facile resolution that betrays the film's central theme . on the acting side , goldberg is goldberg , albeit oddly restrained , as if director donald petrie didn't want her to be especially funny . dianne wiest is charming , but this is far from her best recent performance . eli wallach and bebe neuwirth are both fun despite being stuck playing stereotypes , and lainie kazan has the associate's plum role -- a tabloid gossip columnist . daly's boring performance conveys as much menace as a slice of white bread . the associate can boast exactly two funny moments -- a smooch that provokes over-the-top homophobic reactions and a literal example of bathroom humor . the lack of laughter is damaging , because this material isn't sufficiently plausible or entertaining to hold an audience's interest without the particular brand of outrageous comedy that goldberg is known for . the associate works fine as a bland , feel-good , big screen sit com , but there's nothing here to get excited about . this is mediocre filler in a fall release schedule that is otherwise full of promise . -- ingmar bergman 
1	for it's 15th anniversary , jonathan demme's classic concert film stop making sense is being re-released with a new print and a remastered dolby digital soundtrack . starring david byrne as well as the other members of the talking heads , the film is certain to delight their fans . with minimalist staging , lighting and camerawork , the concert documentary may have a more limited appeal for those who aren't fond of byrne's strident singing style . older movies with large cult followings are some of the hardest films to review . people have already made up their minds about them . anything less than complete praise will be derided by their fans . and those who didn't like the movie in the first place probably will not bother to read the review . for the record , i've liked a lot of music movies in which the music was not of the type i normally enjoy . i've loved rock concert movies ( message to love ) , rock documentaries ( hype ! ) and rock musicals ( pink floyd : the wall ) . stop making sense , on the other hand , did nothing for me . with his lean , gangly body , his thin , geekish face and his exaggerated clothing , byrne stands out in any crowd . the guy must be in tip-top shape to endure his performances , and it is easy to see why he remains so lithe . " the girls can do it too ! " called the tom tom club , this silly segment is the film's one attempt at comedy . even though i was glad for a respite from byrne's voice , i missed his stage antics . the movie , filmed at a live concert , consists of a rapid succession of songs without breaks . if you like them , you will probably feel like a kid in a candy shop , in which the owner says you have an hour and a half to eat all the candy you want . and if you don't like the songs , the film can sometimes feel like living next door to a neighbor who plays loud , harsh music that filters through your walls even when you have the windows shut tight . luckily , byrne's high spirits and undeniable charisma offers something for everyone . it is rated pg and has nothing to offend any age . 
1	one fine day has all the ingredients of an enjoyable romantic comedy : a decent premise , likable leads , and a solid supporting cast . michelle pfeiffer and george clooney make an appealing couple . unfortunately , one fine day keeps them separated for much of its running time . those elements are filler , and , because we want to see more of melanie and jack together , they're unwanted and irritating . one fine day also moves at a breakneck pace , with a digital readout of the time occasionally appearing on screen to remind us that the hours and minutes are rushing by . the contrivance of having a series of deadlines that come and go makes everything seem frantic . everyone in this film is under constant pressure , so there's no time for a quiet moment of dialogue . it's all rather exhausting , with a payoff that isn't adequate for what we go through to get there . one saving grace is that the child actors , mae whitman and alex d . linz , give natural , unaffected performances . they don't call attention to themselves , and , as a bonus , neither is so insufferably cute that you feel the sudden desire to strangle them . both consistently respond to all of one fine day's crazy circumstances the same way any normal kid might , and they mesh well with their older , more experienced co-stars . however , as a romantic comedy , this is a spotty affair because it's not really funny or romantic enough . keeping the leads apart might work for something like sleepless in seattle , where the intention is to develop an old-fashioned , long-distance romance , but , in a movie like this -- one that's being pulled in so many directions that it's coming apart at the seams -- it's a mistake . for much of its running length , one fine day lacks focus and direction , and that makes it one fine mess . 
0	the premise of this thriller might be good , but even a great director like fritz lang and a superb cast consisting of joan bennett and michael redgrave can't save this film from its sophomoric use of freud to give the film's conclusion a pat psychological response to a serious mental disorder presented . the psychology was never convincing , the only thing convincing about this silly film noir is the moody gothic atmosphere it captured . if lang was not the director , this film could have been a real stinker . but he evokes as much suspense as you can out of such nonsense , and the visual images by the great cinematographer stanley cortez are truly remarkable . the film is worth seeing only for those reasons . but even lang himself thought this was a poor film , and he'll get no argument from me on that score . 
0	i think angels and insects is supposed to be a morality tale , but it is so outlandish , it is comes off more as parody . if it were not so slow and somber , one might be tempted to laugh at it . the movie's purpose is to show the strong linkage between humans and insects . in one of the more pedantic editing jobs ( belinda haas ) in recent memory , we have frequent cuts between the horrors of the insect world and that of the human . although there are several memorable insects scenes , perhaps the most dramatic is the immolation scene of the moths in the ubiquitous candles that lit the rooms of that era . a close second is a scene straight out of the birds but with moths instead of birds attaching the helpless female . as soon as the viewer realizes that the film is meant to be out of focus and that he does not need to run and complain to the manager , the film switches to a swirl of upper-class dancers in england and here the colors are rich and the picture is sharp . watch the costumes ( paul brown ) in this and every scene of the show for they are as ridiculous and pedantic as the editing . some gowns are overgrown with fruit favored by insects while others are made to look like insects , e . g . , bold and broad , yellow and black bee stripes . well it turns out that the alabaster's home is a highly dysfunctional one , and we have long since learned from the movies that almost all victorian homes were . since i am sure movies would not lie to us , it is nice to be safely ensconced in the late twentieth century . i guess the servants are not supposed to know the dark secrets of the alabaster household . the shocking ending of this movie is telegraphed about a million times , but i will not reveal it here , although the trailers for the movie do . in one of the better pieces of dialog , the husband says of the mystery , " whom can i tell that i should not destroy in the telling . " this is a show where i developed an admiration for all of the fine details of my watch . at the one hour point , i began to wonder what , if anything , was ever going to happen . as it turns out , in the last quarter of the film the actors and actress come alive as if they had come through a metamorphosis . why director philip haas did not breath live into the show before then astonishes me . there is a genuine , albeit mainly unrealized , potential in this picture . actually , the worst part of the movie is not the plodding direction , it is the stilted script by belinda and philip haas . most of the lines fall like stones and are laden with gibberish . a typical one forces the excellent actress kristin scott thomas to have to say verbatim , " i wish humankind would create such altruistic virtues , but sometimes i think socialism may never be realized . " angels and insects runs too long at 1 : 57 . it is rated r for lots of sex including certain perversions and full male and female frontal nudity , but if you are looking for an erotic show , i think you have the wrong film . i would not let teenagers see the show unless they were mature . although i am glad the characters finally came alive toward the end , i can not recommend angels and insects to anyone , and i give it a single * for a good conclusion to a poor film . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	pulp fiction is a singular show . the best way to describe it is that it is as if you sit down in the movie theater and are immediately transported to a roller coaster going full speed through a fun house of ghoulish images . this is complemented with one of the funniest , smartest , and filthiest dialogs i have heard in a long time . there is no other movie i can compare it to . it has the adrenaline flow of speed , the intelligent dialog of my dinner with andre , the violence of the goriest part of the godfather , and the comedy of tootsie . all that having been said , it is like none of the above other than the superficial aspects i just mentioned . if extreme violence ( e . g . , brains blown on car windows ) is something you can not endure , if 700 uses of the f word is something you can not tolerate , if heavy drug use is something you care never to see ( cocaine is passe we learn , all of the in-gangsters now do heroin ) , then do not pay your money to see pulp fiction . on the other hand , all of the above really works in this show . this is a parody of criminal life and a really funny one . oscars are possible here . harvey keitel plays a fixer of problems for the bad guy . christopher walken shows up in a single long important scene . whew , and i probably missed a lot of other people who did some great acting . the major hero and the one who took the most risks in this movie was the scriptwriter . this is a movie that to describe it will only make you want not to go see it , yet it is mesmerizing and wonderful . the intensity level of the movie is off the scale . people were laughing like crazy in the theater and to intelligent dialog too . other scenes had the audience gasping for breath and uttering out loud " oh , my god " . several scenes were worse the finger cutting scene in the piano . the camerawork was mainly standard stuff , but there are several scenes where it got pretty experimental . the best example is the long scene of wills staring into the camera without moving while he listens to the major bad guy , whom we have not yet seen , delivering a long lecture . it then switches to a view of only the back of the bad guy's head with everything else out of focus while willis listens for quite a while more . if you can like roller coasters and if you have taken to heart my very serious caveats at the first , then i recommend this show to you . do not take or let any teenager see this . it is too much for them . it is rated r , but this is certainly nc-17 . why it did not get nc-17 i can not figure out unless it was because the show only talks about sex and has no naked bodies . it runs 2 : 34 which is a tad long . i think the movie is truly unique and is perfect for its genre so i give it my top rating of * * * * . see it on a big screen with lots of folks in the audience for maximum enjoyment . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	les biches ( the does ) ( director : claude chabrol ; cast : jean-louis trintignant ( paul thomas ) , jacqueline sassard ( why ) , st ? phane audran ( fr ? d ? rique ) , henri attal ( rob ? que ) , dominique zardi ( riais ) , 1968-france ) this is top notch filmmaking by a director who when he is on the mark is as good as anyone in the business . the film is divided into a number of segments that ask questions about the lead characters , questions they cannot readily ask about themselves . that chabrol has the audacity to weave a story around these three diverse characters , each searching for something inside them that remains a mystery to them , plays well against the unmitigated sexual yearnings and need to experience sex these three have in common . it is a way to look at the 1960s , that is through the lenses of these materialists , who seemed to shun that period's more typical cultural revolution . by all indications , they could care less about art or the world . why knows she is not a good artist , and fr ? d ? rique could care less . though the sex is not explicit , its tenseness is what is felt as an obsession , as fr ? d ? rique and paul feel a happiness in their love that fills a void in their life that they couldn't find before . what makes this one of chabrol's better films , is the unexpected resources of the characters to pull off this emotionally draining story : the females , the very fragile does of the film , and the male , who is the hunter , wrestle with the ambiguities of their sexual intentions and inclinations , as it leads up to the tragic ending . their emotionally desperate situation always seems to be one step beyond their reach , as they get deeper and deeper into an unresolvable situation , with the film ending on its bleakest note , with a certain amount of vagueness still remaining , that is befitting a film that has told its story with all the style and clarity it could muster . dennis schwartz : movie reviews ozus @sover . net 
1	many chinese films exported during the past half-decade ( or so ) have shared a fondness for tragic melodrama . titles such as ju dou , raise the red lantern , farewell my concubine , temptation of a monk , to live , and shanghai triad all end bleakly . this isn't necessarily a bad thing ( in fact , some of the above movies are excellent ) , but it creates certain expectations when viewing a motion picture originating from mainland china . to a large extent , blush delivers what we anticipate , although the ending isn't as joyless as those of its many predecessors . unlike many of the movies that came before it ( such as to live and farewell my concubine ) , blush doesn't have a cynical or negative perspective of the liberation . her depiction of the revolution and its aftermath is evenhanded . the film opens as the prostitutes from the red happiness inn in shanghai are being herded like sheep into a re-training center . despite the subtitles , scrupulously accurate period details , and strong acting , blush is basically a cinematic soap opera . this fundamentally unsatisfying method of presentation undercuts the film's dramatic power . the ending is especially weak because a key aspect of the denouement is described , but never depicted . blush's primary message is that , to survive , people can adapt to any situation . for xiao'e , the final destination is the same , but , because she is less stubborn and more manipulative , her route is less turbulent . really , it's the historical context that makes this movie worthwhile , although primarily for those with interest in the era . there's nothing remarkable about the storyline , and the tear-jerking is only marginally successful . nevertheless , the movie affords us another perspective of a period in modern chinese history that has already received much film exposure . blush is well-paced and moderately entertaining , but it lacks the depth which has characterized many other , recent exports from that part of the world . sadly , this basic deficiency makes for a largely unmemorable motion picture . 
0	a typical 1950s noir , distinguished by its rapid pace and taut script , that delves mainly into the character of the villain-- making him out to be someone who went over-the-edge when he couldn't take being ridiculed as a failure , anymore . by being nearly blind and wearing thick glasses for his myopia , he assumes the role of a victim in society , visually manifesting a pathos based on this physical handicap . this the suburban atmosphere and the no nonsense style of telling the story , are a stark contrast to the suspense building up for the very characteristic 1950s couple . the blandness of the story and the failure to elicit anything out of the ordinary , play against the competence of this well-crafted script . the result is a watchable film , which could be seen for the sense of nostalgia it evokes to a more receptive time for noir to work as well as it does . 
2	cast : alexandre lazarev , tatiana krivitska , eugen pachin , constantin kostychin , elena korikova , angelika nevolina , sergiy romanyuk director : vyacheslav krishtofovich producers : mykola machenko , pierre rival screenplay : andrei kourkov cinematography : vilen kaluta music : vladimir gronski u . s . distributor : sony pictures classics in russian with subtitles that is why i made this film about people whom i pity . and whom i love . " with a script ( by andrei kourkov ) that combines dark comedy , drama , and suspense , a friend of the deceased proves to be a fascinating and engaging look at a country in turmoil . the way the story develops , with a number of inventive twists overlaying a typically " russian " sense of tragedy , conjures up images of the work of fyodor dostoevsky as filtered through o . henry . while most of the film wades through dramatic currents , with occasional swells of satire and grim humor , one extended sequence recalls the suspense of a hitchcock feature . the problem is that anatoli has never seen kostia , and has only a sketchy description of what he looks like . from time-to-time , the seams of the script show , and we're aware that a character is acting in a certain way because that's what the plot demands . a friend of the deceased's primary asset is that it offers an insider's perspective of the labyrinthine workings of contemporary kiev , and how the transition from the old ways to the new ones have overturned the values and shifted the balance of a society . it's a plus that the movie is well-acted , gripping , and populated with enough bizarre twists to keep even a casual viewer involved . although not a masterpiece , a friend of the deceased is a strong and worthwhile effort from an acclaimed ukrainian director . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	rowan atkinson is the most gifted and versatile comic performer in the english-speaking world , and i only qualify the statement that much for fear of appearing more cosmopolitan than i am . no one is as equally deft at delivering withering insults ( see the various incarnations of his " black adder " character ) and performing priceless , wordless physical comedy ( see the television episodes of " mr . bean " ) . that most americans know him best -- if at all -- as four weddings and a funeral's malapropping priest is a problem in serious need of correction . i'm not sure the film version of bean is going to do it . atkinson's mr . bean is a marvelous comic creation -- a gangly , goggle-eyed maladroit with the mischievous self-absorption of an adolescent and the one-size-too small brown suit to match . launched from a simple situation into wild flights of humor , bean's actions _are_ the plot of a " mr . bean " episode . bean the movie makes the critical error of jamming bean into the same tired , conventional premise which as served as the vehicle for a hundred unconventional comedians . can you say " fish out of water ? " atkinson deserves better . there are a few brilliant bean moments in bean : the opening sequence which finds him shaving every exposed surface on his head ; a super-charged ride on an amusement park motion simulator ; bean pushing a draped painting through a hallway as though it were a gurney . the situations set up by richard curtis and robin driscoll aren't really the problem in bean . it's director mel smith who misses the point that " mr . bean " isn't about other people reacting to bean's absurd antics ; it's about bean responding to his own absurd antics . in one sense , i'm being a bit more harsh than bean deserves , because it's still more entertaining than most hollywood comedies . atkinson is too energetic a performer to allow bean to drift into unwatchability , making for a film which will provide audiences with plenty of satisfying laughs . but i can't help cringing at all the miscalculations that went into bean , most notably the sentimental message which becomes unnecessarily obtrusive . mr . bean growing as a character ? stuff and nonsense . i'd much rather that the makers of bean learned the lesson and produce a bean film deserving of the name , one which doesn't suffer from forced attempts at creating a feature length narrative . let his beloved teddy have more than a token cameo appearance . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	move over , silence of the lambs ! with its rare mixture of intelligent plotting , flawless acting , and start-to-finish tension , copycat is a force to be reckoned with--hopefully both at the box office and when oscars are given out next spring . it amazes me that an entry from this genre , which is normally known for pointless gore and contrived storylines ( see--or rather don't see--don't talk to strangers ) , has turned out a motion picture this keen and complex . it's a difficult task to perfect this sort of story . there are so many areas where the script can fail that it's astounding how seamlessly copycat overcomes all obstacles . there are no stupid characters , contrived resolutions , or deus ex machinas . and the movie doesn't play games with the villain's identity--we aren't left wondering whether he's one of the supposed " good guys . " like seven , copycat isn't concerned with whodunnit , but why they did it and how they will strike next . in contrast to the brad pitt/morgan freeman movie , however , this picture has a rock-solid storyline with no gaping holes in logic . i've never been a big fan of sigourney weaver , but what she accomplishes here is impressive . i can't help wonder how much better death and the maiden would have been had she turned in a similar caliber performance there . from the opening scene in copycat , weaver has a good sense of dr . hudson , and she holds onto the character through all the emotional ups and downs . this is doubtlessly the actresses' best work to date . strong-willed , tough , and extremely competent , her mj monahan is the kind of smart , multi-layered role actors relish , and hunter is on target with her portrayal . this is a contained , dynamic performance without a hint of overacting . in many ways , what the actress does here exceeds what she managed in jane campion's new zealand period drama . the supporting cast is solid . dermot mulroney projects a likable cockiness as monahan's partner . the worst thing that can happen in a movie like this is for the characters to be a step behind the audience . that's not the case in copycat , where the viewer is in synch with what's occurring on-screen . tension and atmosphere are excellent , and director jon amiel pays careful attention to detail . parts of this film are frightening , and will have many viewers either on the edge of their seat or hiding their eyes . and , unlike in many so-called thrillers , the ending is not a let- down . comparisons with silence of the lambs are inevitable , but this movie is no mere copycat of jonathan demme's 1991 feature--it's a well-crafted improvement . 
1	the term has at times been used to define any film which women tend to like more than men ( sleepless in seattle comes to mind ) , but in its strictest sense i define a " chick film " as one which deals with relationships men could only attempt to comprehend : mother-daughter , female friendships , and birth mother-child . angie definitely falls within this framework . it's got mothers , daughters , friends , childbirth and a dose of heartbreak to guarantee maximum lacrimal viscosity , and all these things may affect the target audience . i found myself impressed by geena davis' performance , but bothered by the obvious and excessive manipulation which never really pays off , and by some unfortunate mixed messages . davis plays the title character , bensonhurst , brooklyn resident angie scacciapensieri . geena davis' performance as angie is easily the best thing about angie , which is fine because it's also the most important thing . most of davis' roles to date have emphasized her comic talents , but angie confirms what thelma & louise suggested : that davis is a very gifted all around actor . stephen rea is also extremely slick and charming as noel , and the scenes between davis and rea provide many of angie's highlights . through its first hour , angie is an interesting and appealing character drama with real promise . the second half of todd graff's script suffers from two major problems . the first is that it seriously overloads on emotional high points . there were at least four separate points at which i thought that angie had reached its climax , and what made that decision the most frustrating is that none of them quite provided the catharsis that angie needed but always just missed . i got the feeling that hollywood pictures had tested several endings , found that the audiences responded to each one , and then decided to keep them all . consequently , angie loses its narrative momentum two thirds of the way through and coasts to the finish on its tear-jerking . the second , and perhaps more distracting , problem is a rather personal distaste for what i perceived as a sell-out in the change in angie's perspective which occurs at the end of the film . a speech angie makes to her baby surprised me by suggesting that angie believed her problem was thinking too much about herself , when i felt she was thinking about herself for the first time in her life . the fits and starts in the film's many climaxes left me wondering what it was that i was supposed to have learned from angie's story . it is a given that a film like angie pulls emotional strings , and that in itself is not a failing . manipulating our emotions is what films are supposed to do ; the best ones just manage to do it so skillfully that we don't notice or don't care . angie doesn't achieve that deft middle ground . it crosses its signals , piles on the pathos , and leaves its star to carry most of its emotional baggage . 
2	set in a lush , fairytale , sixteenth century france , the movie floats on gossamer wings . danielle is a beautiful tomboy who fights with the best of them but who manages to stay absolutely charming in every scene . barrymore is perfectly cast for the role , and , given this script , it becomes hard to think of anyone who could have played it better . when she smiles , the camera lens almost melts . as danielle's stepmother , rodmilla , anjelica huston delivers a reserved but dead-on performance , helped by the bitingly witty script . in the film's most satisfying scene , danielle finally slugs marguerite when she can stomach her no more . a prince and a commoner are not a likely combination in the 1600s . but you knew the story . the delight of ever after is that it makes it all seem new and fresh . barrymore's performance alone is worth the price of admission . it is rated pg-13 for a single mild profanity , and the picture would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 9 , loved the picture , giving it * * * * . he thought barrymore was really cute . 
2	proceed no further , gentle reader , if you are of a delicate constitution or prefer to see your films with no potential surprises revealed : i am about to " out " in & out . it's all a big misunderstanding , he claims , based on his cleanliness , his sense of style , and his inordinate fondness for the barbra streisand oeuvre . don't be deceived , gentle reader . plants a 15-second kiss on his lips . an audible gasp rustled through the auditorium where i saw the film when the audience suddenly realized it had been duped . a woman near me muttered , " that is disgusting . " mr . and mrs . john q . heterosexual-american , expecting a straight farce from in & out -- emphasis on " straight " -- may be in for a very rude awakening . i'm not averse to rude awakenings as a rule ; in fact , i think cinema in particular could use a lot more of them . in this case , however , the premise they're selling is so much more interesting than the premise they end up using . for about half its running time , in & out is heading in the right direction , but as soon as howard admits that he's gay , it feels like all the satirical energy has been sapped from the film . it becomes just another sincere plea for tolerance and understanding -- pleasant and laudable , but lacking bite . it's tough to be too hard on in & out , because rudnick's script is so often so sharp . the cast supports the script with uniformly solid work , particularly joan cusack in a brilliant physical performance which turns a wedding dress into a spectacularly versatile comic prop . kevin kline's performance is also satisfying . . . at least half of it is . he just doesn't know what to do with himself once he comes out , nor does the script know what to do with him . for the final half hour , howard simply sits around waiting for the people of greenleaf , indiana either to accept him or reject him . i'm not sure if director frank oz ( housesitter , dirty rotten scoundrels ) could have made a film with the kind of dead-eye social commentary the " straight " in & out would have required . i would have liked to see him try , though . this is one of the year's few unquestionably funny comedies , yet it's also one of the most frustrating . give the paramount marketing department credit for coming up with one of the most hilarious comic plots in recent memory , the plot to the great film in & out _almost_ was . instead , it's here , and it's queer , and i guess we'll have to get used to it . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	the charles dickens influence is evident on griffith's work , as the complications to this simple plot keeps getting more involved in the political trials of the revolutionary times . it also gave the director a chance to pontificate against the more current bolshevic revolution of 1917 . the popularity of the play inspired at least one french and three american film adaptations . it's not a film without major faults , which include stilted acting , clumsy characterizations , an implausible tale , and laughable melodrama . but somehow the well-intentioned sincerity of the story plows its way through the mess and the film is interesting as both a museum curio and for the raw emotions expressed by the suffering sisters . it is also noted for its rough characterization of robespierre , its beautiful costumes and authentic looking mob scenes , capturing the chaos of the times . but it still should prove to be of interest mainly to film buffs rather than the general public . he was someone who believed that if you didn't think like him , you were evil . the excessively melodramatic story is one that tugs at the heart strings , but makes up for so much goo by conveying griffith's history lesson : that the french revolutionists rightly overthrew a bad government , but unfortunately allowed dictatorial mob rule to take over . how the film works for you , depends on what you can overlook about it that is creaky and what you can accept about it that is grandiose . it has not aged well , but i found it worth seeing for its historical value and its chilling suspense . for whatever the director's faults were , as for his politics being tainted with contradictions , he , at least , always considered his art above all else . it is filmed in a pleasant to look at tinted b/w . 
0	cast : matthew broderick , jean reno , hank azaria , maria pitillo , kevin dunn , michael lerner , harry shearer , arabella field director : roland emmerich producers : dean devlin screenplay : dean devlin , roland emmerich cinematography : ueli steiger music : david arnold u . s . distributor : tristar pictures godzilla is the ultimate culmination of the " who cares about plot " summer movie . a loose remake of the 1954 " classic " japanese monster movie , godzilla , king of the monsters ( which is itself pretty thin in the story department ) , roland emmerich and dean devlin's big-budget lizard-stomps-manhattan disaster flick has been written with the brain dead in mind . the script isn't just " dumbed down , " it's lobotomized . presumably , the primary target group for this film is teenage boys , the demographic most likely to shell out $7 repeatedly to see the same images of monster-instigated carnage . that's not to say that females and other age groups are immune to the special effects seduction ; they're just not as readily susceptible . this is the third straight movie in a row where emmerich and devlin have demonstrated that a mastery of computer-generated visuals is far more important for making money than the ability to write and direct for actors . and , with godzilla already drowning in hype and merchandising tie-ins before it even opens , it's virtually guaranteed at least $100 million . nice numbers for a film that could have been penned by a not-too-precocious grade school kid . godzilla isn't completely without merit , although it is close . there's a certain visceral thrill inherent in watching the giant lizard rip his way through manhattan , but it wears off quickly . frankly , while the special effects are competent , they're not all that stunning . maybe it will require george lucas and his new star wars movie to take computer-generated visuals to the next level . godzilla never really pushes the envelope , preferring to remain within a comfort zone . the imagination of monster movies like king kong has been replaced by a crass , formulaic approach which disallows creativity . worst of all , godzilla isn't even exciting . with the possible exception of a mildly enjoyable car chase near the end , there isn't a sequence in this film that raises the pulse . even the scenes with dozens of aircraft attacking the monster are so devoid of tension and suspense that they are yawn-provoking . independence day may have been dumb , but it was full of " adrenaline moments " capable of getting the audience involved in the action . in this aspect of its production , as in so many others , godzilla is lacking . the plot , such as it is , can be summed up rather simply . unfortunately , manhattan has been destroyed so many times in recent disaster movies ( independence day , deep impact , armageddon ) that it's becoming boring . at ten times that height , godzilla would be more likely to knock it over . godzilla contains a few lame attempts at humor . there's an ongoing feud between animal and his wife that plays like sit-com material , an unfunny and repetitive gag about how no one can pronounce nick's last name properly , and a rather tame attack on film critics roger ebert and gene siskel . ebert's re-election slogan is , not surprisingly , " thumbs up for new york . " the siskel/ebert stuff is amusing the first time it's used , but , after a while , it grows tiresome . and , although the " characters " don't serve any real purpose , they keep popping up . godzilla is saddled with an unimpressive cast . this is largely because emmerich doesn't want to risk a human performance upstaging his lizard . that's not to say that matthew broderick and jean reno aren't capable of good performances ( both have done their share of solid acting in the past ) , but they aren't a-list names . then again , considering the quality of the writing , even pacino and deniro would have been hard- pressed to shine . ultimately , it doesn't really matter what i ( or any other critic , for that matter ) have to say about the movie . tristar has assumed that godzilla , like all self-proclaimed summer event motion pictures , is pretty much critic-proof . it may also be word-of-mouth-proof . those who want to see the movie will see it no matter what i write or their friends say . so , when i go on record to assert that godzilla is one of the most idiotic blockbuster movies of all time , it's like spitting into the wind . it's probably too much to hope that some day , movie-goers will wake up and realize that they've been had . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	cast : robert de niro , jodie foster , albert brooks , harvey keitel , leonard harris , cybill shepherd director : martin scorsese producers : julia phillips and michael phillips screenplay : paul schrader cinematography : michael chapman music : bernard herrmann u . s . distributor : columbia pictures while rocky represents solid entertainment , it lacks the psychological depth of scorsese's picture , replacing daring character development with a feel-good sports formula . taxi driver is on a level that rocky neither aspires to nor attains . like raging bull , taxi driver features robert de niro in top form . de niro's performance is so perfectly-tuned that we in the audience don't have a moment's doubt or disbelief about what's taking place in travis' troubled mind . travis is tired of sitting back and taking what life dishes out . he wants to act , even if the action has no basis in logic , because , by this time , he is beyond rational considerations . steeped in irony , the five-minute epilogue underscores the vagaries of fate . there's no doubt that taxi driver paints an extremely disturbing portrait -- we find ourselves understanding travis' mindset . this is expert film making from scorsese , cinematographer michael chapman , and the actors . schrader's script , which was inspired by such diverse works as dostoevsky's notes from underground and harry chapin's song , " taxi " , is a masterful psychological study , the depth of which can only fully be appreciated on repeat viewings . twenty years after its initial release , taxi driver has reached screens in a new , pristine print featuring a remastered stereo soundtrack . and , despite the passage of two decades , the only thing dated about this film are the fashions . taxi driver's message still rings as true as ever , and the characters are as shockingly believable as in the mid-seventies . this re-release offers movie-goers another opportunity to see one of scorsese's most influential and disturbing films on the big screen . 
1	robocop 3 is merely a run-of-the-mill superhero movie , complete with comic-book type villains and a plot of limited scope and even more restricted appeal . it's the good guys versus the bad guys in a time- honored tradition . there's a lot of firepower , numerous explosions , and a few amazing new gadgets for the superhero to put to use . all-in-all , it's pretty routine , and that's a big disappointment . for those hoping that the third entry in the series would bring things back around to the level of the first , 'tis not to be . at least , however , we're spared another plodding and pointlessly violent adventure like robocop 2 . this one has a little life ; rigor mortis has not quite set in . the great thing about the original robocop ( directed by a pre-basic instinct paul verhoven ) was a tongue-in-cheek attitude coupled with an indefatigable wit . there was action , to be sure , but the script was clever , and it made the old superhero formula seem fresh . alas , with robocop 2 , little of that freshness remained , and we got what amounted to a senselessly-violent rehash of the first . the satire was tired and the action pedestrian . now , along comes robocop 3 and , while it doesn't breathe new life into the series , it at least offers something moderately more diverting than its immediate predecessor . even though there's nothing extraordinary about the plot , it has a few moments that almost make us forget that the film makers are beating the proverbial dead horse . robocop 3 goes for straight action , allowing brief instances only of the facetiousness which made the initial installment so enjoyable . on another occasion , we see just how much punishment a solid american car can take and still keep running . coupled with a few random one-liners , that's about all the humor that this picture has to offer . great acting skills certainly aren't required for the part , and there's nothing about burke that would cause anyone but a relative to lament the change in lead actor . almost all the surviving characters from the first two films are back , so there's a nice sense of continuity . the murky politics of who controls the police gets even more confusing in this movie , but that becomes moot by the final battle . one of the biggest improvements from robocop 2 is the music score . in the last film , leonard rosenman created one of the least-inspired action film soundtracks of all time--music that was a bastardization of his own feeble star trek iv work . for this movie , basil poledouris has given us an overblown , pompous score totally in keeping with the nature of superhero action movies . i'd like to make mention of the special effects . while most of them are okay , there are some scenes featuring an airborne robocop that are absolutely laughable . hasn't someone come up with a way to make flying look better than the horrible sequences when christopher reeve donned the superman cloak ? judging from this movie , the answer would have to be " no . " orion's financial problems delayed the release of this film for so long that its arrival is distinctly anticlimactic . people will wait a long time for a special movie , but that's a description that doesn't fit robocop 3 . since it's hard to imagine conditions under which the series will be granted a further entry , this particular superhero may have flown off into the sunset . too bad it wasn't in a cinematic blaze of glory . 
1	pedantic and preachy , penn's film tries to be an almost unwatchably horrific picture and succeeds . it has a single point , which is the brutality common during that period . penn has given us a highly repetitious movie , which in the first ten minutes chillingly illustrates south africa's violent inhumanity and then forces the viewer to endure similar scenes again and again . hard to watch shows can be effective , the best recent example being paradise lost : the child murders at robin hood hills . although paradise lost almost made me feel ill , it was enlightening and never manipulative . inside is an in-your-face movie that flaunts the atrocities . for those who do not the first ten minutes of the film will provide an education . the rest of the picture relies on shock value and misses a golden opportunity to teach us more . his chief interrogator in the kafkaesque drama is a colonel kruger , played by nigel hawthorne in a performance reminiscent of ralph fiennes's work as the smiling nazi in schindler's list . although the guards are played by south africans with heavy accents , stoltz's accent is jarringly bad . much of the problems in the show stem from the script's obsession with the prison cell as the venue from which to tell the story and from jan weincke's camera angles . these talking lips cover the entire movie screen for minutes at a time . although the performances are excellent and easy to empathize with , they suffer through the repetition . the film's title was not chosen casually . the script uses language to outrage the viewers . " it was about culture . it also uses some gruesome images to arouse the audience's anger . the otherwise completely plausible story concludes with an emotionally effective , but unrealistic scene . overall , the film is efficaciously terrifying , but little more . there are many other and better films that cover the same ground as inside . i left knowing little more than when i entered the screening . stoltz says proudly , " he hardly gives you any direction . " therein , perhaps , lies the problem . inside runs 1 : 34 , but it feels twice that long . it is rated r for violence , torture , language , and a brief sex scene . it is appropriate for teenagers only if they are quite mature and not susceptible to nightmares . i admired all of the acting and i think the message of the film is important , but the show itself is almost unwatchable . i give it a marginal thumbs down and * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	cast : danny glover , joe pesci , rosanna arquette , lynn whitfield , nick brimble , willie nelson , carol kane director : christopher cain producers : roger birnbaum , julie bergman sender screenplay : jill mazursky cody & jeffrey abrams cinematography : dean samler music : randy edelman u . s . distributor : hollywood pictures it's dumb and dumber meets lethal weapon sans mel gibson . can any premise be more doomed from the start ? actually , the saddest thing about this unfunny , misguided motion picture is watching two performers i admire -- joe pesci and danny glover -- stumble their way through such obviously inferior material . i suppose it's worth remembering that glover and pesci meshed well in two lethal weapon movies , albeit primarily because the characters were cleverly written . here , although the two actors display a certain " buddy " chemistry , that's a fragile thing to build a movie on . i can't help thinking that if this movie had allowed us to spend ninety minutes with gus and joe sitting in a rowboat , catching fish , and talking , it would have been infinitely better than what's on screen . even pesci , a decent comic actor , can't cull humor from mirthless material . for the most part , gone fishin' seems uncertain how to get laughs . its pg rating robs it of the opportunity to use the kind of flatulence jokes that turned dumb and dumber into a hit , so it settles for making gus and joe act like little kids . that approach is a failure , but no one , not director christopher cain nor screenwriters jill mazursky cody and jeffrey abrams , seems to recognize this . with so few comic bits that actually succeed , gone fishin' quickly turns into a dull and meandering affair , drifting from one cliche to the next . all of the expected staples are present : runaway boats , high- speed chases , predictable one-liners , and a bunch of equally trite contrivances . all the while , we're looking for a single bright spot -- one solitary thing to make us chuckle so that the $4 . 50 matinee price doesn't seem like a complete waste of money . if you look hard enough , you'll find it . one sequence with a sleazy boat salesman is well-written , nicely acted , and ably directed . it's funny , and , surprisingly enough , reasonably smart . it also only lasts about three minutes , and , after that , gone fishin' plunges back into the murky depths from which it briefly emerged . by the time we get to the animatronic alligators , it's all-too-easy to forget that this movie contained a worthwhile moment or two . when it comes to gone fishin' , it's best to stay home . 
2	leni riefenstahl's most remembered and most vilified film is triumph of the will . it has been called the most effective propaganda film of all time . i found the movie to be a religious film , and , in fact , hitler himself talks about national socialism as being the equivalent of a religious order . it has some of the same feel of the movies about religious cults except this time it is a true life cult , and these are not actors . make no mistake about it , the people in this film were worshipping someone they thought was their messiah . leni captures this with chilling accuracy . the print i saw was in poor quality . i once saw parts of a video of this movie that was in much worse shape . nevertheless , you could see the zealotry and feel the intense emotions . it is easy to dismiss all of this with - well , i would never have been a nazi . watching the expressions of the people there , you could see how many of them did believe that national socialism was their future and hitler was their salvation . all very scary stuff . you could easily close you ears and just watch the master of leni's camerawork . if you are careful you can even see one of her many cameras going up in an elevator . opening back up your ears , you get the music and sound that evoke the power of the this self-proclaimed " master race " . interestingly , of the many speakers , with the exception of hitler and a few others , most of the leaders were crude and coarse looking . leni has them looking like that just finished a big meal at the local beer hall and you are waiting for the big burp into the camera . if you have any doubts that this is a religious picture , wait for the scene where hitler goes on a long slow walk through 200 , 000 party members standing in attention . when you leave the theater , you know you have seen the power of true evil , and as the quote at the start said , knowledge of evil is a precondition to its defeat . for this reason and for the brilliance of the film making , i recommend this to everyone old enough to truly understand the difference between good and evil . it has no mpaa rating . it is clearly a * * * * show . triumph of the will runs 1 : 54 , has some spoken german in it along with english subtitles , but it is essentially a montage of extremely effective imagery . finally , anyone interest in leni should be sure to see the recent documentary the wonderful , horrible life of leni riefenstahl about her life and her films . it is absolutely fascinating . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	it's about fifteen minutes into flesh and bone before you see the first speck of sunlight , or hear the first note of underscore . in fact , there's almost no movement or sound of any kind . however , there's moody , and then there's comatose . flesh and bone is the perfect example of a solid story choking nearly to death on its own atmosphere . at the heart of flesh and bone is an intriguing character in an intriguing premise . as charming as he can be , quaid simply doesn't have the dramatic range necessary to dig into this complicated character ; when he should be looking introspective and guilt-ridden , he just looks stiff . i was left imagining a jeff bridges in the role , and what might have been given a more versatile actor . other aspects of the performances also left me unsatisfied . meg ryan has the light touch required for the film's few moments of humor , but she doesn't quite strike the balance of strength and accumulated pain required for this role . his performance is too mannered , full of odd jaw movements and rolled eyes . surprisingly , the best performance is turned in by gwyneth paltrow as the savvy gennie , but it's hard to figure what purpose her character serves , other than perhaps to remind arlis of what he could be . for all the problems with the acting , it's another issue entirely that proves to be flesh and bone's ultimate undoing : it's positively snore-inducing . at two hours and ten minutes , it's at * least * twenty minutes too long . there were establishing shots which lasted twice as long as necessary , and meaningful pauses which weren't very meaningful . to make matters worse , there were two minute stretches of dialogue between caan and quaid which were practically indecipherable ( i'm not sure whether to blame the sound mixing or the theater for that one ) . in live theater , there is an expression : " tighten it up . " what flesh and bone needed was a good tightening up . the tone that flesh and bone is going for is fully achieved . everything is working towards a grim tension , and it succeeds , but tension requires release and it's there that flesh and bone doesn't deliver . thanks to an ill-conceived ad campaign , one of the film's key plot points is given away in the trailers , blowing one of those release points for anyone who has seen them . there is a great deal of craft to the broad strokes of flesh and bone . 
1	it has been a long time since a film inspired as profound a case of " what am i missing ? " in me as shine . this australian drama has been a fixture on year-end top ten lists , won a best picture nod from the national board of review , and picked up a new york film critics association best actor for star geoffrey rush . so i sat myself down to watch shine , and i waited to be transported . and i waited . and i waited . and it never happened . shine is an extremely well-crafted film , but it doesn't pay off at a gut level . director scott hicks' restrained approach to an uplifting story ends up choking much of the life out of it . perhaps the film's best sequence involves david's performance of the " rach 3 " at the albert hall , wild hair and sweat flying in slow motion as his ultimate artistic triumph becomes a mute pounding of keys . even the death of one character cannot evoke much emotional response , and david's match with gillian is apparently the result of complementary astrological charts instead of a genuine connection between them . shine may be about david helfgott , but peter helfgott is the real soul of the film , and when he disappears from the narrative there is nothing to drive it forward . geoffrey rush's performance as the adult david is superb , a portrait of mental illness which is vivid and lacking the obtrusive kookiness of many screen depictions of such conditions ; his mile-a-minute monologues full of puns and streams of consciousness display a brilliant mind imploding upon itself . there simply isn't much to the second half of shine which leads us to a conclusion . hicks' background is in documentary film-making , and it seems that his instinct is to let david's story tell itself . most films about characters struggling to triumph over adversity play to the broadest possible emotional canvas , and it is admirable that hicks has chosen not to bludgeon his audience insensible with feel-good signifiers . shine is a good-looking , good-sounding and thoroughly professional production with a pair of excellent performances by armin mueller-stahl and geoffrey rush . it is also too sedate by half , a story of shattered genius which opts for a dim glow when it needs a dazzling shine . 
1	writer/director vivi letsou's film , skeleton woman , is like a video that you might find in the adult section of a new age bookstore . the dancers' revealing costumes look like they were designed by romanian folk dancers . the whole place is so surreal that you wonder what the point of it all is . an eclectic movie , its scenes range from arguments about rising home prices in marin county to a dance number roughly akin to two female mud wrestlers without the mud . the movie likes to cut to images of crashing waves or of olya , shown in silhouette , walking on the shore . frequently it stops to tell us tales like the one about the " skeleton woman " whose bones have been cast into the sea . the sound of the sea is her mournful cry . the film plays like an abstract poem that has been translated into prose . the story drifts back and forth like the ocean waves . although it's handsomely shot and well acted , the film is only for those who can buy into its fairly tale . to me it smacked too much of new age psychobabble , and i was never drawn into the story . the excessively cute flashdance meets new age showgirls exotic dance numbers were enough to kill it for me . it is not rated but would be an r for nudity and sexual situations . 
1	perhaps " story " is too strong a word . as directed by painter julian schnabel , whose only other movie was the also overrated basquiat , before night falls is more a collection of half-formed images than any kind of a proper story . spanning reinaldo's entire life , it never creates a single fully formed character . when the ending credits finally roll , all we know for sure about reinaldo is that he was gay , persecuted and mother-fixated . there are only hints of his literary skills . the film suffers almost exactly the same problem as finding forrester , the other recent movie about a writer . both movies spend enormous effort on side issues , while never bothering to give us examples of the writer's work product until the very end . see if you can recognize them . the rest of the supporting cast isn't the least bit memorable . schnabel makes some unusual and frequently unsuccessful choices . the movie is mainly in english , but , capriciously and sporadically , the characters begin to speak spanish with english subtitles . his use of grainy archival footage is the most successful as it gives the movie more authenticity than any of the acting . the picture's lead , javier bardem , keeps the same withdrawn look throughout . his lack of energy and the director's languid pacing make for tedious viewing . we are reminded of castro's persecution of anyone deemed counter-revolutionary , such as writers or homosexuals , of which reinaldo was both . schnabel , however , doesn't have a clue as to how to stage this . the only interesting part is one camera angle taken from the inner tube's viewpoint . the movie is filled with lost opportunities . rather than build on the indoctrination issue , the story tosses it out and then drops it . but after showing it , this isn't properly developed either . what we are left with are some wonderful images and a terrific and eclectic score that includes the adagio from mahler's 5th -- always a good choice . my favorite of the visuals involves an escape effort by hot air balloon . but , like most escapes , it fails . the movie is like that . lots of good images surrounding a failed attempt at storytelling . part of the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is rated r for strong sexual content , some language and brief violence and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
1	i am not sure what australia's chief export is , but i'd like to believe it is their films . the australians have a knack for making quirky little comedies that work -- muriel's wedding being one of their funniest . in hotel de love , they have sent to our shores an endearing and charming comedy populated with characters worth caring about . first time director craig rosenberg's hotel de love is not great cinema , but it is certainly an enjoyable diversion . sometimes a split second makes all the difference . it does for steve . the script , by the director , is a mixture of comedy and romance with a touch of poignancy thrown in every now and then . the tone of the film reminded me of the old tv series " love american style , " albeit a little more explicit . every room there is different . my favorite is called subterranean passion and looks like something out of the flintstones , complete with a big boulder for a door . the set decorator clearly had a blast with this assignment . a great parody of bad taste . the script is sharp and witty and most of the laughs come from the dialog and not the wacky sets . movies with physical comedy too often sink into slapstick worthy of bad tv sitcoms , but this movie rarely goes overboard . this is exactly the type of scene i normally hate , but they manage to make it seem just believable enough to be humorous . the film is full of delicious little subplots . " what are you doing ? " " you can't keep up your drive-by 'i love you's . " i thought the first was too pat , but the others are quite sweet . i left the theater feeling a little silly and quite happy . it is refreshing to see new directors with promise . i'll keep an eye out for rosenberg's future comedies . it is rated r for brief nudity , some sexual groping , sexual humor , and some profanity . the show is tastefully done and would be fine for any teenager . i give the film a fun thumbs up , and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	cast : roberto benigni , nicoletta braschi , michel blanc director : roberto benigni producers : yves attal and roberto benigni screenplay : roberto benigni and vincenzo cerami cinematography : carlo dipalma music : evan lurie u . s . distributor : c/fp distribution in italian with subtitles the monster is a mediocre motion picture wrapped around a number of very good scenes . starring italian comic sensation roberto benigni ( johnny stecchino , son of the pink panther ) , this enjoyable-but- inconsistent slapstick farce rolls through peaks and valleys of laughter . when it's funny , it's very funny ; when it's not , it borders on tiresome . there's no doubt that the monster was designed as a showcase for benigni -- after all , he not only stars in it , but he also directed , co-wrote , and co- produced it . from beginning to end , this film offers a sample of his considerable talents . the plot borders on irrelevant -- it's just a useful envelope for a number of variably funny sketches . through a series of bizarre coincidences ( which i won't describe here , since they wouldn't be funny in print , but are on screen ) , a nerdy , out-of-work , petty thief named loris ( benigni ) is pegged as the chief suspect . the monster starts out slowly , with only a few sparse laughs during the 30-minute setup . there's a lot of sexual humor here , but , unlike american productions , where such comedy usually consists of a few stale , dirty jokes , benigni's material is fresh , uninhibited , and sidesplittingly funny . as a curious aside , it should be noted that because this film was released into the mainstream italian market , where it became a huge hit , it's in italian . however , four of the actors ( including michel blanc ) either don't speak the language , or speak it poorly . as a result , their voices were dubbed into italian , and the poor synchronization of speech creates an unintentionally amusing side effect -- a subtitled movie with embedded dubbing . the monster is roberto benigni's film , and , watching him roar through it like a tornado , it's easy to understand his immense international appeal . this isn't a masterpiece of comedy , but there are enough hilarious moments to earn it a lukewarm recommendation . 
2	much ado about nothing is another shakespearean film from that shakespearean master kenneth branagh . there is no one today who can do shakespeare like branagh , see , for example , his henry v , which was number one on my list the year it was released . in much ado about nothing , he wrote the screen adaptation as well as did the direction . i will assume that most of you know the plot in much ado about nothing from school so i will not repeat in detail here . the movie is uneven , but the range is from good to outstanding . they have so much energy , it makes you feel alive and glad to be on any planet they inhabit . they are the older lovers in the show , but by far and away the most interesting . the younger lovers' acting abilities are okay at best . robert sean leonard's acting is quite unsure in the early scenes , but he warms up a bit to the part as the movie builds steam . on the whole , i found their romance a disappointment . i still remember romeo and juliet ( 1969 ) so i know how great it can be . although denzel washington is in the film , his heart and passion seem to be somewhere else . he is fine in his role , but nothing special . the only serious problem in the casting is michael keaton . as an actor , when he is good , he is very very good ( see for example clean and sober ) , and when he is bad ( don't see one good cop ) , he is awful . i have not seen such overacting in a long time as his acting in much ado about nothing . the technical aspects of the movie are outstanding . the cinematography by roger lanser and the sets by tim harvey are lush and gorgeous . if you feel in the mood for a movie not costing something approaching the national debt to produce , if you actually enjoy humans in your movies ( no , i am not dinophobic , but there is more to life than jurassic park ) , if you especially like humans who can talk and have something to say at the same time , if you like screens smaller than candlestick park , then go to your local art house and see much ado about nothing . much ado about nothing runs 1 : 51 . it is correctly rated pg-13 and would be fine for any kid old enough to appreciate the bard . i recommend the show to you and give it * * * . i look forward with great anticipation to branagh's next shakespeare piece , and the one after that , and the one that . . . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : june 25 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	even at his most vicious , stewart maintains a debonair style and sly wit that automatically make his villains more interesting than the run-of-the-mill sort . unfortunately , in masterminds , the distinguished actor is literally the only worthwhile piece of flotsam bobbing around on a sea of hackneyed sewage . masterminds is bad . unfortunately , it's not bad in a freespirited , campy sense -- it's bad in a way that makes it painful to endure . this is one of those motion pictures where i found myself looking at my watch with increasing regularity , wondering about the virtues of walking out on the film , and praying that the projectionist would accidentally leave out a reel or two . ( plot-wise , such an omission wouldn't have mattered -- the movie is so obvious that it would have been simple to guess what was missing . ) director roger christian , whose resume highlights several virtually-unknown features , is obviously a big fan of die hard , since this film is the most blatant rip-off i've seen , right down to all the little plot devices ( like the walkie-talkie communication with an ally on the outside ) . in fact , christian and screenwriter floyd byars are so aware that they're stealing from die hard that they even include a line to that effect ( " we have a die hard situation here ! " ) . actually , it's possible to re-use the die hard material effectively ; my complaint with masterminds is that it manages to ruin things at every turn . instead of this being a pulse-pounding rollercoaster ride of adrenaline , it's a pointless bore . everything that was special about die hard has been negated here by careless writing , bad acting , and pedestrian direction . aside from stewart , the only thing that kept me interested was trying to figure out what kind of bizarre accent brenda fricker uses . as far as i can tell , there are three rules that must be followed for any action film to attain a degree of success . the first is that the movie must maintain some level of credibility ; this film gives new meaning to the term preposterous ( for example , no one gets hurt or even seriously injured , despite numerous explosions and one electrocution ) . second , the action must be exciting and there must be a sense that the protagonist's life is in danger . nothing could be further from the truth here , where the big scenes are just excuses to blow things up . finally , and most importantly , it's necessary for the audience to develop a rapport with the main character . in masterminds , that's difficult , if not impossible , because ozzie is such a snot . as the movie progressed , i kept hoping he would get shot or crushed or incinerated . i never liked him , and if there's any reason to root for raif , it's because he has such an obnoxious opponent . kartheiser , who was last seen in alaska , has mastered the ability to really annoy a viewer . masterminds represents the pinnacle of action movie tediousness , the kind of film that makes me yearn for mediocrity . by comparison , the moribund speed 2 zipped along at a breakneck pace . this film appears to have been written by a member of the target audience , and possesses a grade-school intelligence level ( ironic , considering the title ) . that way , there will be no need to entertain thoughts of a sequel -- something that the final scene clearly has in mind . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
0	a disturbing drama , inspired by a true story , that rails against the hypocritical sexual attitudes of the times . the first-time filmmaker , philip goodhew , takes us behind the nice lace curtains of a respectable british household and brings us a story of repression , jealousy , and obsession . it's a well-made but grimly unmoving film , that dwells on an unpleasant subject , that culminates in a gruesome double homicide . in this rather peculiar m ? nage ? trois , harold is not only stuck with mum but has to ward off joyce . it's my birthday ! " by the climax , it becomes apparent that this affair is no laughing matter . but the film somehow couldn't get past its laughter at these absurd characters and it failed to provide some pathos to go with the dramatics . there was just a growing emptiness that seemed to hang over it , which prevented me from seeing this as just your typical bizarre crime story . 
2	director : henry selick . if jurassic park proved one thing , it was this : image * is * everything . what the public seems to want most from movies is spectacle ; show them something they've never seen before , and they'll beat a path to the theater door , even if the story is fairly simplistic . this news should come as a great comfort to touchstone pictures and tim burton . the nightmare before christmas is a straightforward , somewhat bland fable which would have put me to sleep if done with live action or traditional hand-drawn animation . however , its stop-motion figures and incredible production design are dazzling enough to give nightmare a delightfully timeless quality which make it far more entertaining than it could have been . first , the good news : nightmare is truly unlike anything you've ever seen before . the look combines old rankin/bass christmas specials , edward gorey illustrations and the beatles' yellow submarine to create a remarkably distinctive and detailed world . the animation is incredibly fluid , to the extent that i began to wonder whether a couple of characters were real humans somehow edited into the film . it was the kind of film where i never took my eyes off the screen because i was afraid of missing something . director henry selick avoids the pitfall of " showing off " his toys ; he keeps the camera moving , telling the story visually with style and effectiveness , particularly jack's graveyard song after his christmas coup . the down side of this complex and expensive animation technique is that the story had to be packed into under 75 minutes . there is no time for nuance of character or well-developed motivations ; the filmmakers slam through the plot at a breakneck pace , avoiding lags in pace but also avoiding a truly engaging story . the villainous character of oogie boogie also comes up a bit short , and a slightly grumpy santa could have been very interesting . the story is a fairy tale , so i don't take issue with the simplicity of the plot . i was just disappointed with the apparent decision to throw everything into the visuals . perhaps most disappointing is the song score by frequent tim burton collaborator danny elfman . taking an operatic approach , nightmare is almost entirely through-sung , making the songs a crucial element of the film . but with the exception of the lively " what's this ? " during jack's discovery of christmas town , the tunes are fairly tedious and the lyrics lacking in wit . they seemed designed simply to move the story forward , not to inspire humability like the best ashman/menken tunes from the recent disney films . it's surprising given elfman's playful oingo boingo oeuvre that his songs here are so somber and uninspired . some movies are called feasts for the senses . the nightmare before christmas qualifies as a feast for the sense , singular . while there is very little worth listening to in the film , there is more than enough worth looking at to compensate , particularly for those with a slightly twisted sense of humor . 
1	screenplay : greg harrison . director : greg harrison . that uniquely fin-de-siecle phenomenon known as the " rave " gets its sociological moment in the sun in groove , a film that will be more effective as cultural curiosity a few years hence than it is as a story today . as the djs spin on , so do their stories and several others spin along for 86 minutes . that time is moderately well-spent as an introduction to the rave sub-culture . harrison drops in a few bits of memorable lingo ( " buying a vowel " for purchasing either acid or ecstasy ; " the nod " for the party-goer's acknowledgement of the party-thrower's success ; " baked , not fried " for one fellow's expressed preference for marijuana over hallucinogens ) to set the scene without stranding newcomers in the minutia . from the dance floor to the fruit-and-water-stocked " chill room , " groove re-creates its unique world as effectively as you could hope for . harrison then proceeds to populate that world with one unmemorable , uninvolving character after another . most of the narrative is spent on david and leyla , whose budding relationship is supposed to be the core of the film but feels like just another drug-fueled party scam . worse still is the contrived drama in the relationship between colin and harmony , which takes a " hip , " independent film sort of turn for the worse . the acting is servicable at best , the characterizations not even that . groove is composed entirely of people doing the sort of thing one sees people do at raves , played with all the energy and commitment of people playing types -- you're the uncomfortable geek , you're the dealer , you're the party princess , and so on . the issue isn't that groove meanders along in its night-in-the-life way without trying to be particularly profound . dazed and confused and american graffiti were charming studies of its era's revellers , and no one much cared if an epiphany was to be found . both of those films , however , had the benefit of a nostalgic distance , allowing both film-maker and audience to recognize the silliness inherent in youthful celebration . greg harrison is too serious about this milieu ; he seems to be making the suggestion that kids really have found party nirvana this time , not like those goofy kids of the '60s , '70s and '80s . it's no wonder the characters are irrelevant ; harrison just needed bodies to jump up and down to the beat . his take on the rave scene , detailed though it may be , isn't dazed and confused for the '90s . it's thank god it's friday for the '90s . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	this tearjerker melodrama proved to be a big hit commercially for the popular silent star mary pickford . there is one scene where they both are together , and this was accomplished by the method of double-exposure . skip to the last paragraph if you don't want to know how the story is resolved . undoubtedly , the film is dated , but for its time and the excellent way the film was crafted , it succeeds as a popular soap opera type of vehicle . though , by having pickford , " america's sweetheart , " commit a murder , its ethics and reasons for doing so can certainly be questioned , though the happy ending satisfied the public . many film critics felt that this was the best role that pickford ever had . though the film was as heavy as goo , it was not without some passing interest for mainly historical reasons . 
2	cast : jerzy stuhr , malgorzata zabkowska , ewa pokas , stefan czyzewski , jerzy nowak , krzysztof zanussi director : krzysztof kieslowski producer : wielislawa piotrowska screenplay : krzysztof kieslowski and jerzy stuhr cinematography : jacek petrycki music : krzysztof knittel u . s . distributor : new yorker films in polish with subtitles call camera buff a case of art imitating life . although director krzysztof kieslowski admitted that this film doesn't tell his own story ( " i made films because that was my profession , and i was too lazy or too stupid or both to change . . . " ) , it will undoubtedly strike a responsive chord with many amateur and professional film makers . yet , while the movie is about the love of a craft , this isn't a nostalgia-drenched account of that appreciation . kieslowski developed camera buff's deceptively complex script so that it addressed weightier themes : obsession , censorship , and the battle between artistic integrity and personal sacrifice . fans of kieslowski's later style ( which began to emerge in no end ) may find camera buff's light , occasionally playful tone disconcerting . although the film deals with serious themes , kieslowski never allows the proceedings to grow maudlin or overly-introspective . the script is peppered with serio-comic incidents that leaven what could have been a staid , sober story . nevertheless , the manner in which the plot unfolds and the interconnected issues are confronted announces camera buff as a picture of considerable substance . but , from the moment he looks through the lens , filip is hooked . [shooting films means] more than a home and family . " why does he make films ? and do they mean anything if they are reduced to propaganda pieces instead of genuine depictions of the world as he sees it ? this all sounds rather grim , but , perhaps surprisingly , camera buff may be the funniest of kieslowski's features ( although both decalogue 10 and white have their moments ) . none of the humor is excessive or intrusive , but there are moments of the absurd that maintain a relaxed tone , and filip's enthusiasm is infectious . kieslowski isn't attempting to bludgeon us with preachy morality lessons ; his intent is to explore certain issues in an entertaining manner . and , while camera buff lacks some of the artistry evident in the director's later projects , it's worth seeing not only as an example of kieslowski's early work , but as an important film in its own right . 
2	didn't you always wonder what those toys in your room would say if they could come alive ? this time , in the indian in the cupboard , an imaginative director ( frank oz ) has found a magical and delightful series of children's storybooks by lynne reid banks , and he delivers a tale full of joy as well as some pathos . before i go too far , i do have some surprising news to report . regardless of what you might assume , there are no special effects in the indian in the cupboard ! trust me . i have seen this movie , and the little people in the movie are real . you see the show and try to convince me otherwise . nothing that realistic could be done with special effects . it is the real mccoy ; i am certain . one is an iroquois indian man , little bear , acted by litefoot who i am told makes his living doing rap songs . little bear is brave , courageous , and wise . he is the star of the show , and litefoot delivers a great performance . the interaction between the two of them is more interesting that even that of them and omri or of omri and his buddy played by rishi bhat - another type of indian . the easiest way to frame the story in your mind is that it is the et for this generation albeit the film is not of et's caliber . on the other hand , it is easily the best family film thus far this year . so many movies treat kids as dumb or rebellious . watch how cleverly he solves problems . too bad the movie didn't stop at certain points and say , okay adults , if you are so smart , how would you get little bear out of this fix ? unlike another similar movie , honey , i shrunk the kids , this is not a comedy albeit we all laughed many times . this is a serious show about a magical moment in a child's life . you get to live it vicariously and savor some golden moments . the feeling of the innocence and challenges of your own childhood well up in you . the book and hence this movie takes some wonderful and unexpected twists . the only problem i had was with the script by melissa mathison . without them , the script would have worked just as well . if your nine year old told you he was feeling " damn good " wouldn't you attempt at least to correct him or has society given up the fight against profanity ? i know plenty of cuss words . would you have liked this review better if i stuck some in every now and then for the sole purpose of spicing it up ? what if this was a review to be read mainly by young kids ? would you feel like correcting me then ? finally , why do we have to be so pc these days where the cowboys must be lazy , stupid , and shiftless and the indians noble and brave . imagine the uproar if the character traits had been reversed . it is rated pg for some death and near death scenes and for the useless profanity . it would be fine for any child over say 4 . the violence is handled very tactfully . they watched the show intently and with much seriousness . i recommend the show to kids and to adults with or without the kids , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	screenplay : mark steven johnson . director : donald petrie . in a sense , there's really not all that much to say about a movie like grumpy old men . it's the kind of movie one generally describes with somewhat faint-praise adjectives like " cute , " or " fun , " or " entertaining . " grumpy old men is all of these things , to a point . there are a couple of belly laughs , but there's not much genuine spark . for all its manufactured whimsy , grumpy old men is basically a sit-com , a moderately diverting 105-minute episode of " the golden boys . " the beautiful and spirited airel attracts the attention of both men , but neither is brave enough to make the first move . so when ariel makes the first move--for both of them--old animosities are stirred to the boiling point . for one thing , it's simply a pleasure to see lemmon and matthau together again . the trouble is that they're not given all that much to do besides call each other " moron " and " putz . " there are a few nice bits of physical humor , notable lemmon spraying matthau with a garden hose and matthau taking an ax to a foot of ice in a futile attempt to retrieve his prized ice-fishing pole . but for the most part grumpy old men just strolls along , apparently convinced that we're so comfortable with the actors that we'll find anything they do amusing . the other characterizations in grumpy old men are wildly uneven . on the plus side is ann-margret , who is positively luminous . she's perfect for the role of ariel , radiating a joie de vivre which would clearly be appealing to the two icy septugenarians . there is a marvelous warmth to her scenes with lemmon and matthau , and i was sorry that her part wasn't even larger . he appears briefly for the express purpose of being cantankerous and sexually suggestive , once again proving that it's supposed to be funny that older people think about sex , too . their characters don't serve much purpose , and while both actors are very appealing , i couldn't figure out what the point was . grumpy old men does nothing to offend overtly . the photography of the snow-covered minnesota town is bright and atmospheric , particularly the ice-fishing village ; alan silvestri adds a cheerful if somewhat pedestrian score . there are enough chuckles in the film to make it a decent matinee diversion , but overall grumpy old men relies far too much on the history between lemmon and matthau , and far too little on anything particularly clever in mark steven johnson's script . 
1	shanghai triad is a technical tour de force by the great chinese director zhang yimou ( red sorghum , ju dou , raise the red lantern , the story of qiu ju , and his greatest of all and the number two on my best of 1994 list , to live ) . sad to say that , although shanghai triad is certainly worth seeing , it is one of his lessor films . unlike to live which came alive in the characterizations , shanghai triad focuses its tremendous creative energy on images , nostalgia , cinematography , and music . in fact , it has so much music that one could almost classify it as a musical . the movie is mainly about the lifestyles of chinese gangsters , but their warfare forms an important subplot . in a minor role liu tang as uncle liu gives the best performance in the movie . men's business , no matter how small , is important , " so do not disturb the boss while he is engaged in business of any kind . gong li is stunning in the film and her voice in the many musical numbers is like honey . gong li is a great actress , but she did not give her usual energy to this picture . when wang tries to act , he shows that he needs more acting lessons and should stick to expressions for now . just when you think you have him figured out , you don't . the marvelous cinematography ( lu yue ) is full of the city filmed in a hazy dark sepia . this is contrasted with the shots of the bright glistening red sequins on xiao jinbao's gowns . the entire picture's filming is extremely nostalgic . many of the moving shots are evocative of a top notch still photographer . they are so good i half expected them to be selling stills from the movie in the lobby after the show . i loved all of the songs , but the theme music is the best part . it was played again and again using different instruments and sometimes it was hummed . it is still reverberates around in my head . although most of the show is a mood piece , the action in the last part finally gets believable and the tension is heightened . here the show finally comes into its own and delivers on some of its promise . most of the movie however is merely an exercise in style albeit one well worth watching . shanghai triad runs too long at 1 : 49 and many scenes , especially those on the island , should have been deleted or at least abbreviated by editor yuan du . the movie is in mandarin with english subtitles except for all the ending credits which for some reason are totally untranslated - good thing i have the web to find the missing credits i need . the move is rated r for a half dozen uses of the f-word , some violence , a little sex , but no nudity . it is a fairly soft r and the movie would be fine for a teenager of any level of maturity . although i was disappointed by the movie and expected much more , i did like it and do recommend it , and i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 27 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	in the end , it becomes indulgent and ties things up much too neatly to be taken seriously as drama . it is a familiar story , but told with great charm here and with sharp observations of how these academia types talk to each other and interact . the theme of " wonder boys " -- is conventional -- it is about the author's self-development . the script is snappy , the actors are pleasing to behold , the photography , mostly shots of pittsburgh in the midst of snow or a torrential downpour , is bleak-- but it interestingly sets the tone for the film's playful story . the idea for the film was a good one , but something gets stuck here , preventing the film from taking a chance and becoming a bold story , one that it could have easily become if it made that choice and knew what to edit and what to add . also dragged into the story are an interracial couple who add some slapstick scenes , enlarging the quirky flavor of the film . those scenes were amusing in the way those old-fashioned comedies of the 1930s and 1940s were . the film had a warm and fuzzy feeling to it . it had some good bob dylan tunes in the background . it was a return to liberalism movie , bucking a trend of a lot of new films to be more conservative or more extreme in their unconventionality . in any case , it was good to see a film about some older people with a sense of humor , a bit of romance in them , who are able to loosen up a bit . this does not make it a great film , but it was diverting and had a certain sophistication to it that should attract an older audience , one more perceptive about the advantages of a higher education . to the film's credit , it keeps its focus on tripp as someone who is mixed-up , but who is still trying to be a decent teacher and help those under his tutelage . 
0	wonderland is a rather sugary romance film that is as subtle as a ton of bricks falling on you . you can see its plot developing from a mile away . you that this is a dating film , about singles who for reasons of fate or luck , or whatnot , have not had a successful match and are now putting most of their energy into fulfilling their careers , is nothing new , this type of film has been done often and better many times in contemporary films . the fictionalized documentary unmade beds did it more provocatively and with more of a sense of urgency than this film . the it is cornball sitcom stuff , but , at least , it is handled as best it could be by the actors and director . it is easy to like erin , she is bright , caring , and attractively blonde . this sub-plot was as obnoxious to see take place as it is to hear told . anyway , as expected , all's well that ends well , for this watchable piece of fluff , that comes over on screen better than it does when relating its story-line . the dialogue was actually not bad , those dating erin or trying to flirt with her seemed to be uttering authentic things they would actually say in their situation . 
1	rappaport's debut film is a black comedy that has all the eccentricity exhibited in his later films , but without the polish he was able to develop for his more accomplished works . that this film is an adequate entry into his oeuvre of independent films , is certainly true . as always , a rappaport film is marked by the absurd way its characters are presented and by its low budget . homage is paid here to such classic movies as sunset boulevard and johnny guitar , as these are viewed on tv by the neurotics featured in the film , whose lives seem more unreal than what they are watching on screen . there were at least eight other little episodic dramas , other than the one just referred to- of the lady who wakes up in the morning , whose only aim in life is to watch films on tv for the whole day . but the scene is played back ala rashomon , giving the man's version which is different from hers . all these episodes feed into the off-the-wall fun the narrator has in describing the action taking place , which he narrates in a mock serious tone . the way the lives of these lonely new york city denizens are presented , make for an original film , though not a complete one , but one that is worth seeing for those who don't mind seeing something a bit different . 
2	it plays out as a horror comedy low-budget b-film that is a parody of the hip art world and those who seek fame . its satire cuts deeper into this bohemian world than most other films . walter is discovered by leonard as a murderer , but since collectors are willing to pay big bucks for such detailed realistic work--he doesn't tell the cops . charles b . griffith provides the film with a witty script . character actor dick miller gives an impressionable performance , as does his romantic interest barboura morris . it's a bloody black comedy that is gruesomely funny and because of its unsophisticated way of probing into the underground art world--it exudes a radiant charm , a true cult film delight from the 1950s made for all eras . 
1	date released : ( late ) summer 1994 running length : 1 : 26 rated : r ( language , mature themes , sexual situations ) as might be guessed from the title , this is not a movie that takes an optimistic view on the basic honesty of men in relationships . what might have been called " man bashing " had it been penned by a woman will likely be termed " insightful " and " honest " in this instance , since writer/director john gallagher is a man . of course , no matter how long she tries to ignore the truth , it's obvious that eventually something is going to happen that scott won't be able to pass off as an " optical illusion . " give john gallagher credit for adding a new spin to an old , old theme . while many of these sequences contain obvious cliches , they are presented in an engaging , amusing manner . unfortunately , the primary plot doesn't have the same distinction . the autopsy of scott and jill's relationship is stale , trite , and often unconvincing . if the ultimate aim of this portion of the movie is to get across the " men can be pigs " point , it succeeds , but beyond that , there isn't much here . both characters are relatively shallow , and the stiff acting of the two leads doesn't help . not only wasn't i convinced that these were real people , but i didn't much care what happened to them . stealing scenes left and right is veteran screen actor frank vincent ( a martin scorsese alum , with goodfellas and raging bull among his numerous credits ) . vincent is one of the few consistently good performers , and the comic edge that he brings to uncle frank helps defuse the growing sense of tedium . of course , frank is just a stereotype , but that doesn't negate the humor . writer/director john gallagher came to this project with the idea of putting together a movie that takes a lighthearted-yet-realistic look at male/female relationships . given the constraints of a low budget and an 11-day shooting schedule , the result is perhaps better than one might reasonably expect . there are moments when this small , independent production sparkles , but these are sandwiched between scenes that offer little in the way of freshness or creativity . and , after all , does it really take eighty-six minutes to tell us something that's evident from the start - that men lie ? 
0	there is some nasty action , lots of bad guy mafia men talking tough to good small town people kind of stuff , but the film was too dry to be anything but mediocre . 
2	" failure " is considered the worst obscenity and is not to be uttered from the lips of a gulden . the carefully constructed script by karen croner , based on an anna quindlen novel , makes the professor into a conceited academic , who is much more complex that he seems on the surface . " i'm developing hardening of the sentence structure and inflammation of the paragraph . " ( this quote will later provide one of the story's many small , but important turning points . ) with her slightly sad , little girl demeanor in an adult body , zellweger is perfectly cast for the part . meryl streep plays kate , and streep would have been wasted if the story had stayed at this comedic level . be warned that those who have recently lost a parent or a loved one will undoubtedly find many of the scenes of her illness , no matter how delicately staged , to be quite hard to watch . zellweger , even though she gets second billing to streep , manages to rise above the superlative performances given by streep and hurt . as in the best family stories , the family in this one is quite complex . with a bette midler song playing , they embrace in a dance full of genuine chemistry between them . but , after all of the years , there are signs -- important ones -- that there is a hidden problem . the main tension in the film comes from the demands that george puts on ellen . even if it is basically a character study , the film has several small mysteries whose slightly ambiguous resolutions help piece together the family puzzle . a film of quiet emotions and subtle power , one true thing , directed by one false move's carl franklin , has three marvelous performances and a touching story . in a time when most movie families are hopelessly dysfunctional , it is refreshing to see one that doesn't quite fit the mold . it is rated r for adult themes and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around twelve and up . 
0	screenplay : randall wallace , based on the novel by alexandre dumas . producers : randall wallace and russell smith . director : randall wallace . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , sexual situations , violence ) running time : 124 minutes . it is the moment most of the audience -- the non-teenage-female , dicaprio-swooning portion -- has been waiting for . it is a moment guaranteed to inspire pseudo-spontaneous applause and whoops of approval . . . assuming the audience hasn't drifted into a heavy slumber . for around 100 minutes , randall wallace's rendition of the man in the iron mask wanders through attractive sets in search of a consistent tone , thematic coherence or even a real point . is it a lavish , lusty period romp in the spirit of richard lester's 1970s musketeers films ? is it a moody dickensian pot-boiler of a mysterious parentage and uncertain motivations ? is it a showcase for tiger beat poster-boy-du-jour dicaprio ? wallace effectively combined vengeance , romance and adventure in his script for braveheart , but in his first film behind the camera he never seems clear how to unite all the elements he introduces . the man in the iron mask sputters and hesitates like the work of a nervous rookie who just keeps throwing stuff at the screen in the vain hope that , eventually , something's gotta stick . the uninvolving and ponderous first hour and a half leaves a viewer plenty of time to scratch at minor annoyances until they become major annoyances . meticulously smudged rabble rouse themselves for a minor riot for exactly one scene , perhaps to distract momentarily from the impression that this is an epic with a cast of tens . half the cast speaks with french accents ( all genuine , courtesy depardieu , anne parillaud and plasticine ingenue judith godreche ) , while the other half appears to have wandered in from malibu , or london , or dublin . given the chance to bite into louis xiv's nastiness with relish , dicaprio instead gives him a tiresome method twist which suggests he just wants to be loved . all might have been forgiven if only wallace had played the musketeer trump card for all it was worth . he's got viewers right where he wants them with such iconic characters at his disposal ; the good will is as palpable as it is at a james bond film , where the mere utterance of a trademark phrase generates a ripple of excitement . there's just no good excuse to waste that kind of good will on one or two rounds of lackluster swordplay . dumas wrote wonderful pulp ; wallace tries to turn that pulp into something it's not , only he's not exactly sure what that is . the man in the iron mask is a big muddled mess of an adventure yarn , satisfying only for those interested in going to watch dicaprio in regal finery looking his prettiest . others will find a waste of stellar cast and classic story which never gets a handle on what the film should have been about for the average viewer : a chance to cheer for the crossed swords of re-born legends just a bit earlier than 100 minutes after the lights go down . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	screenplay : jill mazursky cody and jeffrey abrams . mpaa rating : pg ( mild profanity , violent situations ) running time : 92 minutes . i was sitting next to a laugher as i watched gone fishin' . when i say " laugher , " i don't just mean someone who laughs loudly , or someone who laughs frequently . i mean someone who laughs loudly _and_ frequently . the most innocuous line of dialogue was greeted with a hearty chuckle , while a full-fledged sight gag inspired the kind of explosive bellow which i was certain would cause a loss of bladder control . if disney had test-screened gone fishin' for an audience comprised entirely of clones of this fellow , the champagne corks would have been popping like bubble wrap in the hands of a 10-year-old . under most circumstances , the laugher would have annoyed me to distraction . in the case of gone fishin' , the distraction was welcome . the film's breathtaking awfulness forced my mind to wander in sheer self-defense , leading me to spend a lot of time thinking about what a splendid time the laugher was having . as a critic , it is sometimes useful for me to confront how uniquely personal the movie-going experience can be , particularly when it comes to comedy . in my world , gone fishin' was a complete catastrophe . in the laugher's world , it was an unqualified delight . there's certainly nothing inherently clever about the premise . and that , ultimately , is what gone fishin' is about . in other words , it's in the tradition of the slapstick-y live-action comedies disney made when dean jones and kurt russell were foiling the nefarious schemes of joe flynn and cesar romero in various permutations . at least those concoctions were fast-paced and enthusiastically silly . for every two minutes of action in gone fishin' there are at least twenty minutes of inane chatter between pesci and glover . the two are supposed to be lovable , incurably optimistic simpletons , but someone forgot to spend any script time on the " lovable " part . joe and gus are dull , immature and , worst of all , they simply refuse to shut up . thoughts of the three stooges led me back to the laugher , and his enjoyment suddenly made a lot more sense . it's actually a bit of an insult to the stooges to compare them to the ponderous shenanigans of joe and gus , except to note that the audience may find the mayhem similarly appealing . the less stooge-inclined may consider them nothing but a pair of foreheads waiting for a swinging two-by-four . now _that_ would be comedy . 
1	guy ritchie has cleaned up some of the mess he made in this encore to his surprise box-office cult hit " lock , stock and two smoking barrels , " but has made the same kind of empty , semiserious/comedy/crime caper , with many of the same actors from that film . but , this time the story holds together better and is much more amusing , thanks in a large part to the ensemble cast who come and go in the film with seamless fluidity . it's a film filled with an assortment of colorful runyonesque characters from the underworld of crime , or illegal bare-knuckle boxing matches , or from the outcasts of society . this film , like the director's other one , has no strong role for a woman . the main plot is about a series of mishaps over a stolen diamond that somehow brings together a varied mix of characters who are after it or are inadvertently drawn into its disappearance , but the plot is really irrelevant , it plays as a mcguffin--this is strictly a character driven film , with all the characters being either lively in a cartoonish way , undeveloped , or forgettable . the movie will spin-off in different directions , telling each groups' story , until it all comes together in the last reel and plays itself out . the film is played mostly for the comedy and it throws everything it thinks is crazy into the comic mix , even a shaggy dog story . the language used has many expletives and is often hard to understand because of the heavy accents . the violence is brutal but cartoonish , as the film is styled much like a comic book . the rest of this heavily induced homage to musical video films , has a soundtrack that ranges from massive attack to oasis . ford's menacing psychotic performance , stood out as the film's most memorable one . pitt's self-effacing comedy was the performance i best enjoyed , as it gave the film a sparkling light touch ; while , dennis farina , also , was pleasingly comical and added some light touches to this cartoonish film . the only slow down in the film is in the opening moments , when the large cast of characters is introduced . other than that , the film moves at high speed , with all kinds of film gimmicks , from jump cuts to multi use of graphics . this is a film that thrives on controlled chaos as its signature theme . i would call it another dumb cult picture the director has made , one that suffers because there is no one in this film to care about . 
2	albert finney is one of today's best character actors , and lately he's been spending a lot of time in the skin of a lonely , aging irishman . similar , yet not the same . accomplished thespian that he is , finney does something subtly different with each of the parts , and though many of the particulars are the same , no one would confuse any of the three men . yet finney's character is not the focus of the run of the country . though it takes place in contemporary ireland , the way in which people live--many in ramshackle huts with little evidence of modern " conveniences " --gives the story a timeless quality . likewise , the characters would probably be equally at home in the nineteenth century as in the twentieth . the best-crafted element of the film is the love story . annagh is somewhat more world-wise than danny , which makes it amusing to watch her nonplussed reactions to some of his unintentional double entendres--phrases he innocently thinks have only one meaning . drawn with broad strokes , this conflict always seems more peripheral than central , which robs a cathartic scene of emotional power . finney does all he can with the material , creating a mild character always on the brink of an emotional eruption , but matthew keeslar can't keep up with him . in fact , keeslar , who is at times flat , isn't the equal of any of his co-stars . both victoria smurfit and anthony brophy have impressive debuts . the script , adapted by shane connaughton ( the writer of my left foot ) from his own book , has a fair number of affecting sequences , and manages to deftly mix humor and serious issues . at one point , prunty advises : " have a dream ya can live for , lad , not one that'll put you in the grave . " every conflict in this film has its roots in one of these three causes . so , although the run of the country has its weak spots , it nevertheless gives us a more original coming-of-age story than that which typically graces american screens . 
2	it seems that hardly a year goes by without a new cinematic adaptation of one of shakespeare's plays , and , of late , kenneth branagh's name has become intimately entwined with that of the bard . while branagh , who helmed henry v , much ado about nothing , and is now working on hamlet , does not sit in the director's chair for this latest version of othello , he is very much in evidence on screen in the key role of iago . to condense othello into a reasonable , two-hour running time , writer/director oliver parker has lopped approximately 50% of shakespeare's original text from the screenplay . yet , even with so much gone , the movie remains faithful to the play's central themes and conflicts , and the streamlined narrative is surprisingly easy to follow ( well , as " easy " as anything written by shakespeare can be ) . for sheer impact , this othello can stand side-by-side with the versions brought to the screen by orson welles ( as restored in 1992 ) and lawrence olivier . othello's " tragic flaw " is his jealousy , and it's this quality that iago exploits with his complex scheme . much of the audience's ability to identify with the characters is dependent upon the trio of central performances that grace othello . it's an entirely different experience to read the play or see a live performance than it is to view a cinematic rendition . the visual aspects of parker's production are especially noteworthy . othello is dark , and makes creative use of light and shadow as only a motion picture can . laurence fishburn , a black actor playing the black title role ( in some of his various other film incarnations , othello has been essayed by the likes of orson welles , lawrence olivier , and anthony hopkins ? none of whom are black ) , gives a stirring and powerful interpretation of a man haunted by uncertainty about his wife's faithfulness . kenneth branagh , perhaps better focused since he's only acting in this piece , makes iago a chillingly rational character whose acerbic asides to the camera draw the audience into his plot almost as an accomplice . certain shakespeare purists will probably dismiss parker's othello because of its sex scenes and liberal cuts . such a reaction might be a mistake , however , since this director's view of othello's tragedy has an unusual slant . parker is careful to play up the love affair between the title character and his wife so that when the inevitable occurs , it has a more profound impact . when othello declares , " my life upon [desdemona's] faith " , you believe him . with this version of othello , parker wanted to create a shakespearean film that anyone could see , relate to , and enjoy ? a degree in english literature not being required . in large part , he has accomplished this . othello has never been one of my favorite of the bard's plays , but , at times , i found myself engrossed by this adaptation . using the visual aspects of film to enhance certain story elements , parker has crafted a fine motion picture . 
2	in the wonderfully sardonic detention , by writer/director andy anderson ( positive i . d . ) , the bored students know that they can get away with absolutely anything . it seems that 2 parents got an injunction after they found some material objectionable in the current books . this smartly kafkaesque tale has two distinct parts . the darkly comedic first part is followed by a shockingly dramatic second , each fascinating in its own right , but both better together . the comedy works because the excellent ensemble cast takes it dead seriously , and the drama works better because of the comedic relief . both are helped by being outlandish yet frequently quite plausible , as any teacher , especially substitute teachers , will tell you . mr . walmsley , who rarely raises his voice , correctly points out . the school's attorneys have determined the recommended number of teacher-to-student eye-contacts -- 8 per student per class since more would constitute sexual harassment and less would be evidence of discrimination . the challenging story , which asks thought-provoking and provocative questions , is willing to tackle difficult subjects in surprising ways . the director , who is as engaging and hilarious as his movie and who was at our screening , told us of the reaction of a friend of his who had seen the film : " if you're a kid , it's a horror movie ; if you're an adult , it's a fantasy . " it has not yet been submitted to the mpaa for a rating . although it contains full male and female frontal nudity and violence , the director told me that he believes that it will be able to receive an r without cuts since there is no sexuality associated with the nudity . the film would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
0	this is a pointless b- film actioner , a remake of the gritty 1971 british noir classic directed by mike hodges , which had the good fortune to have michael caine be the star and to have a story with an edge to it . this " get carter " features mindless violence , an incoherent and uninvolving story , and most unfortunately the humorless presence of the miscast stallone as a vegas mob enforcer , going to seattle for the funeral of his bartender brother he hasn't seen for a long time . he is dressed in a tacky bright blue suit , sports a goatee , and speaks in a low voice . it is filmed amid some dazzling night shots of las vegas casinos and shots of a rainy seattle , though the rain has no effect on stallone's suit , it never gets soaked no matter how much he exposes it to the elements . it's a clich ? movie . . . so predictable , that if you didn't want to see the way the sleazy bad guys were going to get payback for what they did , you could have left the theater and figured out which way this macho stylish film was going by yourself . you would have missed nothing , there is absolutely nothing interesting about this film . it seems that stephen kay has taken a perfectly taut original film , which was nasty and unremitting to the core , and made a mess of the remake by trying to clean it up , making it into a sleazy film , nevertheless , but one with no redeeming features . he tries to give the film a moment of acting , hugging his niece in a warm embrace , as behind her back he grimaces with obvious pain on his teary face , assuring the audience to pay little attention to this human gesture , they shouldn't worry , he hasn't gone soft , there's going to be a payback . the most disgusting role in the film is reserved for " gazillionaire " computer geek alan cumming , he is the simpering coward , the most unmanly and therefore the most unseemly one in the film . it could have been built as the battle between the sleaze champ vs . the egomaniac . it's an undeveloped role , but caine is so good at getting credibility for his character , someone who pretends to have nothing to gain from the murder , who could therefore be honest about what happened , but is , of course , somehow involved in the cover-up . there are several other sleazes around , who have various things to add to the story , such as more gratuitous violence and a seamy look at their lives . since carter fails to heed such warnings , these two will clash in seattle . anyway , no minor b-thriller should be without such a car chase . the only positive spin i could put on this morose work , is to say that it could have been a lot worse , stallone could have talked in a loud voice . this is just another in a long list of films since the 1980s to try and resurrect sylvester stallone's " comeback . " this picture won't do . it lacks whatever suspense , character development , and ability to involve the viewer , that is needed . it only features the ego of stallone plodding his way in a shallow story . if you want to see " get carter , " rent the 1971 video . it's a nasty story , but it holds together in purpose and credibility , catching hold of the downtrodden newcastle atmosphere in a subtle way , something this film was never able to realize for seattle . 
0	gridlock'd is a seemingly low budget film that covers the same ground as trainspotting , but not as imaginatively . both films are comedies about heroin addicts . almost all critics , but not this one , loved trainspotting . the picture is the directorial and screenwriting debut of the actor vondie curtis-hall ( captain prince in the recent romeo and juliet ) , who also plays the part of the major bad guy , d-reper . the show never made me believe for a minute that these guys had any intention of giving up something that sent them into such ecstasy . spoon , for example , talks in glowing terms about " his first time " -- to shoot up that is . of course , that stretch would scream and cuss them out probably did not motivate the clerks whose help they needed . although highly derivative , many of the scenes are funny . too much of the film is one long chase scene . at least we do get the great director and sometime actor john sayles in a cameo role as " cop # 1 . " i liked the film better than i thought i would , but still it is not much of movie . it is rated r for frequent hard drug usage of various forms , for violence , for lots of profanity and for nudity . i do not think the picture is appropriate for teenagers . personally , i would have rated the film nc-17 . i laughed some , but can not recommend the movie . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	john fawcett's ginger snaps , a horror movie that's a blend of monster movie and teen slasher flick , wastes no time in getting to the blood and gore . in its opening sequence , a toddler starts playing with the bloody remains of his dog . according to the television , it seems that there's some kind of wild animal on the loose . rebels who want nothing to do with their classmates or anyone else , they have personalities both fascinating and repulsive . in the movie's subtext is a female empowerment theme . the wickedly effective performances by the two leads turn what would otherwise be a forgettable , low-budget movie into an intriguing little tale of the macabre . one thing is certain , she won't tolerate the missionary position . the story moves with precision until the last act , which is bloated and too traditionally over the top like a standard low-grade slasher film . most of the movie , however , is quite original and worth recommending to fans of the werewolf genre . those prone to nightmares will need to pass . it is not rated but would be r for strong violence , sexual situations , drug usage and language . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	" i finished shooting the blue kite in 1992 . but while i was involved in post-production , several official organizations involved with china's film industry screened the film . they decided that it had a problem concerning its political 'leanings , ' and prevented its completion . the fact that it can appear today seems like a miracle . . . the stories in the film are real , and they are related with total sincerity . what worries me is that it is precisely a fear of reality and sincerity that has led to the ban on such stories being told . " - tian zhuangzhuang , director of the blue kite it is a troubling climate , where nothing is certain , and the greatest difficulty of growing up lies in determining what is proper behavior and what is likely to get you taken away for " reform . " it is shujuan and tietou's struggles through this and subsequent trials that form the background of tian zhuangzhuang's motion picture . tian's criticism of the chinese revolution is effective because of its subtlety . as was true in chen kaige's farewell my concubine , the characters' stories are used to present the injustices of the system . if anything , the methods employed in this film are less direct than those in concubine , but no less disturbing . the acting by the principles , especially that of chen xiaoman and lu liping , is superb . lu's unaffected presentation of the spectrum of human emotions creates a very real shujuan . tian's method of storytelling , while reasonably straightforward , will be unfamiliar to many american movie-goers . careful attention to the story is demanded , especially for those unfamiliar with the background . because numerous scenes end abruptly and are often followed by sudden time changes , it's easy to lose track of what's going on in the blue kite . we in the west should feel fortunate to be exposed to such well-crafted , provocative motion pictures . 
0	don't be bamboozled . bamboozled , by acclaimed writer/director/producer spike lee ( malcolm x ) , is a preachy and pretentious social satire , featuring black-faced minstrels , that's quite embarrassing and never funny . the acting , worthy of an amateur improvisational group , is awkward with a capital a . and the film is extra long so that lee can beat us over the head with his message . easily the worst film of his career , it is so full of bad racial stereotypes that if a white filmmaker had made it -- remember the flack ted danson got for attempting black-faced humor -- the movie would probably be picketed . in a stilted , unrealistic and unconvincing performance , damon wayans stars as pierre delacroix , the only black writer for an upstart television network . " i h-a-v-e a c-o-n-c-e-p-t , " he says , accompanied with exaggerated hand gestures . racial slurs abound in the script . the didactic movie insults the viewer's intelligence at every turn . it's hard to pinpoint the lowest and most despicable episode in a story filled with vile moments , but the lowest of the low may be the television show's commercial . a bunch of wasted black actors swear by its potency , bragging that it's 120 proof . the film's ending , which shamelessly rips off network , transforms this would-be comedy into a highly manipulative tragedy . after bamboozled , anything spike lee does will be a huge improvement . bamboozled runs an excruciatingly long 2 : 15 . it is rated r for strong language and some violence and would be acceptable for high school seniors and older . 
1	screenplay : denis o'neil . meryl streep has proved to be an actor impossible to pigeonhole . now streep has gotten serious again , but this time in the context of an action-suspense thriller . the river wild gives streep the chance to flex new muscles ( literally and artistically ) , and while she continues to be one of the most talented actors alive , she is failed here by a script which is thoroughly by-the-numbers . there is something to be said simply for the opportunity to watch meryl streep perform . she manages to convey not only her anger at wade for threatening her family , but a subtle seduction in the attempt to convince him and a genuine frustration that she isn't good enough to make this journey even if she wanted to . it was because of scenes like that that my attention never completely wandered as long as streep was on the screen , and she is almost always on the screen . the problem is that most of the elements surrounding her aren't one-tenth as interesting . denis o'neil's script goes exactly where you expect it to go exactly when you expect it to go there , a story any movie of the week could come up with . strathairn is solid , but has little to do ; kevin bacon has a lot to do , and does most of it poorly . he's too stupid and not crazy enough when he needs to be most threatening , and there's not all that much conflict involved when the only thing the villain has over the protagonists is a gun . director curtis hanson directs in a workmanlike manner , trotting out such suspense film standbys as the old " pet leaps out to the accompaniment of a blast of music " trick . it frequently seems as though he sees the family conflict storyline as something in the way , something to be pushed through to get to the rafting sequences . to be fair , those sequences are exciting . cinematographer robert elswit's camera swoops and dives , and there is a genuine sense of danger . the location scenery is also magnificent , filmed on rivers in oregon and montana , and helps fill in many of the dead spots . but the river wild is too often the river mild , a mediocre melodrama gifted with the presence of one great actor . 
1	this is a winning madcap comedy , enhanced by the mercurial pairing of jackie chan with owen wilson , featuring a fluid script and some irrespressible comedy routines . though the plot of the film revisits familiar territory , of the rescue of the princess tale , and the idea of a buddy movie , where characters who are opposites must mesh together . but , what overcomes that familiarity , is the energy and chemistry the two co-stars have and their ability to look good on-the-screen together . what results are well-executed pratfalls , lots of sight gags , ingenuous fight scenes , some stupid ethnic jokes and the flaunting of indian stereotypes , but whereas those old westerns had the bias be for real , here's its in jest and , all the while , the film keeps the comedy rolling on . though not all the comedy works , the scenes of owen in the whorehouse were stale and offered the lowest kind of vulgarian humor . but there is something inexplicable about the stars that make this film effective and able to overcome its triteness . it was better than what i expected from a jackie chan hollywood film , and credit must be given to first-time director tom dey for making the film so appealing and so people friendly . it should prove well in the box office , probably reaching past its targeted teenage audience , and after all , this is a business film . . . whose 
0	if you can imagine a screenplay that cobbles together elements of trial by jury , the pelican brief , and congo , you have a fairly good idea what to expect from this movie . as soon as you think the juror can't get any more silly , it will inevitably prove you wrong . this is yet another in a * long * line of inane thrillers to pit " ordinary " people against amazingly-intelligent , incredibly-nasty , often-psychotic adversaries . add the juror to an already overpopulated category that includes the hand that rocks the cradle , unlawful entry , pacific heights , single white female , the tie that binds , and eye for an eye . there are three prerequisites this kind of film : the basic storyline must have little or no basis in reality , the main character ( s ) must be unreasonably virtuous , and the villain must be evil incarnate . get ready for demi moore in yet another high-profile , artistically barren motion picture . unlike disclosure , however , which was actually enjoyable , the juror is a trial to sit through . the movie would like viewers to believe it has something relevant to say about the ease with which our legal system can be abused , but , in the end , all the posturing about the need for a " reasonable doubt " in criminal cases becomes just another lame plot element . the juror never comes close to making a serious statements about crime or justice . director brian gibson wants thrills and shocks , not potentially thought-provoking questions . at first , she's excited to be selected , but it doesn't take long for the thrill to turn to terror . if this plot sounds familiar , that's because it's a retread of 1994's trial by jury , another horrible courtroom thriller about jury tampering . it's like a bad john grisham plot -- lots of danger and running around , little of which ultimately means anything . for the most part , the acting is surprisingly good for this kind of formula motion picture . demi moore is the lone exception -- it's rare that she's believable for more than part of a scene . supporting players joseph gordon-levitt , anne heche , and james gandolfini all do solid , if unspectacular , jobs . however , no number of competent performances can save the juror . the painfully obvious storyline is what sinks this movie , and even the most accomplished cast couldn't have done much more with the material . this motion picture is guilty of wasting the time of anyone who wants even a modicum of intelligence in their entertainment . 
2	perspective is a curious matter . sometimes , a thing is entirely how you look at it rather than the thing itself . even in the mind , style can triumph over substance . there is an abundance of style on display in three seasons , enough to cloak its lapses in substance . the narrative consists of four largely independent stories of life in modern saigon . visually , three seasons is a remarkably assured piece of film-making , using the contrasts of ancient , war-time and modern vietnam to perfection . cinematographer lisa rinzler captures flower-showered streets and lotus gardens with a warm glow , helping make three seasons an often enchanting tone poem on the conflicts inherent in introducing the contemporary into the conventional . as a narrative , it's considerably more inconsistent , as one might expect from the multiple independent story-lines . by far the most effective is the tale of cyclo driver hai , given the strongest emotional and thematic pull by don duong's exceptional performance . at its core his is a tried-and-true hooker with a heart of gold story , yet something in duong's manner makes the cliche more resonant , his attempts to " save " lan more ennobling than predictable . each of the other tales has its moments , but they come more sporadically . keitel's american perspective feels particularly intrusive , almost like a sop to american audiences ; what's more , it adds a title-confounding fourth story to the three seasons . though three seasons rarely inspires seat-shifting , it's never as engaging as it is when the focus is on hai . still , the stories do ultimately come together as tales of healing , of reconciling vietnam's troubled past with its challenging present and future . as the first american production shot in vietnam since the war , it's also an often-compelling cultural document . there's little doubt that three seasons feels somehow more " significant " because it is so gracefully and beautifully composed , but that's hardly a cause for consternation . if it pushes plenty of the right aesthetic buttons , that only proves that glamour can change one's perspective , as it clearly has in a post-war saigon where coke adds life . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	it is an iranian film about the preparations for the coming persian new year . the movie is told in almost real time and starts one and a half hours before the beginning of the new year when the people in teheran are in a frenzy making sure that everything is ready . excitement is in the air . it was at this point in the show that my guilt began . how could i not be liking a show that was trying so hard ? clearly director jafar panahi was doing his best to craft a sweet little slice of life piece , and here he had gotten himself a girl that has no screen presence and more over was about as much fun to listen to as someone scraping their fingers down a blackboard . playing a role of the little girl that everyone wished would go away , she could do , but here so was supposed to be the charming lead character . aida mohammadkhani plays razieh as a very unsympathetic character . oh well , i though , the mother is sweet and the brother is not too bad , perhaps the only flaw , albeit a large one , will be the miscast lead . soon i was to find another aspect of the story as infuriating as aida mohammadkhani's performance , namely the show's sound by said ahmadl and mojtaba mortazavi . rarely is it that the sound becomes a big detraction , but it is in the white balloon . striving for authenticity , i guess , the director has background sounds frequently drowning out the actors . now , loud music is one thing , but the audience has to endure a cacophony of obnoxious traffic noises , radio talk shows blasting out from hidden boom boxes , and most irritatingly of all , off screen people , especially the unseen older brother inside the house , yelling at other people . it made me want to escape the theater and go sit in some peaceful spot to give my ears a rest . not a pleasant time . the script by abbas kiarostami is minimalist and is need of a rewrite . we are left with a story that works or doesn't solely based on the intrinsic charm of the lead character . so what is good about the show ? mohsen kafili and fereshteh sadr orfani deliver nice performances . the music , when it is there , is quite pleasant . most of all , i give the producer ( kurosh mazkouri ) a lot of credit for attempting such a sweet little tale . it is too bad the execution is so flawed . as a critic , there is nothing worse than having to give a thumbs down to something that you want desperately to like , but can not . it is oh so much easier to err on the side of grade inflation . giving movies thumbs down has the potential for generating a plethora of complaining letters ranging from polite disagreements to diatribes . if you overpraise a movie , all you get is silence . when i confessed that i did not like forest gump , burnt by the sun , and the birdcage , i got a wide range of letters , but most people claimed it proved how stupid i was not to have liked the movie since they and the rest of known world liked it , end of argument . as somerset maugham said , " people ask you for criticism , but they only want praise . " the white balloon runs 1 : 25 , but feels a lot longer . it is in farsi with english subtitles . it has no mpaa rating , but would probably be g . the show would be fine for kids of all ages , but i suspect most will be as bored with it as i was . i can not recommend this attempt at a sweet little tale , but i give the film * 1/2 for trying hard and for a couple of decent performances by the mother and the younger brother . actually , i fear that i getting too softhearted , and * 1/2 may be too generous . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	every movie has its own " making of " story , but , no matter how fascinating the account , it's unusual for the unexpurgated truth to emerge into the public realm . 1995's twelve monkeys is a rare exception . perhaps the first question that leaps to mind is : why call it the hamster factor ? the story goes something like this : there's a scene in twelve monkeys where a naked bruce willis is required to draw a sample of his own blood . the take went as expected , except the hamster didn't do anything . so there was a re-shoot , and the same thing happened . gilliam continued to re-film this sequence until the rodent did what it was supposed to . in the director's own words , however , this is " a bit of detail that probably doesn't mean anything to anyone but myself . " because this incident exemplifies gilliam's obsessive approach to film making , the hamster factor stuck . for twelve monkeys admirers and destractors alike , this represents an intriguing , intimate look at what went right and wrong on and around the set . even those who haven't seen gilliam's movie will be intrigued by much of what transpires . the hamster factor has a different agenda than most " making of " movies -- this isn't intended as a glorified advertisement for twelve monkeys ; it's more along the lines of eleanor coppola's hearts of darkness , which details the behind-the-scenes trials and tribulations of apocalypse now . in it , gilliam made some uncomplimentary comments about his leading man's acting style . ) undeniably , the most interesting aspect of the hamster factor is watching gilliam's creative crisis . willis at times proves to be a headache ( contrast his " hands-on " approach with the quiet , introverted style of madeleine stowe ) , and the $29 million budget restricts the film maker's vision . as filming progresses , he becomes obsessed by visual imagery and details -- so much so that midway through , he confesses that he has " lost the film totally " . the hamster factor is so absorbed with gilliam that it doesn't spend much time on technical behind-the-scenes details . there is some - - the editing process is described , for example -- but , most of the traditional " making of " documentary elements are missing . another thing that comes across is that , while willis occasionally clashes with gilliam , the actor's passion is obvious , and it wouldn't be a surprise to see him behind the cameras soon . the hamster factor , which distilled 135 hours of footage into a 90- minute movie , follows twelve monkeys all the way to its release . given gilliam's occasional bouts of depression and disgust for his craft , it will be interesting to see what his next project will be , if there is one . in europe , it will receive a similar treatment , being appended to the laserdiscs and home videos of its parent film , or receiving a television broadcast . so , while the hamster factor will not be showing at the local multiplex , it's not destined for obscurity , and , when it becomes available , it's worth seeking out . -- ingmar bergman 
1	for most of the film , her primary problem is a massive case of sexual frustration . every time she starts to get intimate with a man , there's some sort of interruption -- like someone showing up shooting off a gun or threatening to kick in the door . there's only so much of this anyone can take . no wonder she's in a bad mood . well , let's just say that sil bears a remarkable resemblance to the praying mantis . sil's need to mate is fueled by maternal instincts , but it's bad news for humanity if she carries a child to term . sil is actually an alien/human hybrid . her alternative form , a monstrosity straight out of the imagination of alien creator h . r . giger , would likely provoke at least a few stares . there are two ways to look at this motion picture . if you compare it to a sci-fi action thriller like aliens , it comes up short . james cameron's picture was masterful at building tension and suspense before bringing everything together in a satisfying climax . species sticks with basic scare tactics -- things jumping out of the shadows to the accompaniment of a surge of music . there are moments of high energy , but the pace is basically one of ebb and flow , and there's not much atmosphere to speak of . on the other hand , as a tongue-in-cheek homage to body snatching pictures , it isn't half bad . as long as you don't stop to think about what's going on , species is capable of offering its share of cheap thrills , with a laugh or two thrown in as well . the plot is patently ridiculous , but that's where a temporary suspension of disbelief is mandatory . don't bring logic into the mix . as a high-tech , campy action movie , this one beats judge dredd , hands down . the characters are all types , but this is intentional . there's the strong , silent preston , played by a laconic michael madsen . cast somewhat against type , ben kingsley is a sleazy scientist with no concept of ethics but a great love of procedure . director roger donaldson has a lot of fun with his premise . the top-notch special effects , which use a lot of seamless computer animation , make the climax look very nice . the rest of the film is essentially one long chase sequence with a couple of nude scenes and maulings added to liven up the proceedings . no matter what genre you identify species as , it's not top of the line , but there's also quite a bit of room beneath it . 
2	most viewers , including this seasoned one , will be at a loss to say precisely what the picture is about and what figgis is trying to say with it . the story is bafflingly frustrating yet beautifully intriguing and unabashedly sexual . think of it as a mysterious , erotic tone poem for thinking adults . but be forewarned . many members of the audience are likely to be scratching their heads at the end , asking themselves , " what was that all about ? " told in overlaying stories that flash forward and back , the stories are purposefully oblique . containing few audible words , the film's sparse dialog is generally heard , if at all , in whispers or through obstacles such as glass or fire . figgis wants the images and his sublime music to carry the picture . since sands is tall and athletic , this casting of the excessively plump boy was a particularly bad choice . the best part of this story is a long and absolutely adorable sequence of newly born twins as they stretch and greet the world . in a movie charged with eroticism , these sequences are the most playfully sexual . in a movie that clearly should have been rated nc-17 , they are shown in full frontal-nudity as they observe each other standing and urinating . this story contains the most nudity this side of a porn flick . using a loud and shrill version of beethoven's ode to joy , figgis makes the purge take on a naziesque feel as the once innocent young lovers are chased by hidden boogiemen with flashlights . the various stories are interrelated in ways imaginable and unimaginable . the movie is best savored when you turn brain off and treat the movie as a completely sensory experience . the picture is at its most satisfying in its sexual escapades . besides the aforementioned biblical references , two other sexual scenes stand out . this funny and charming scene is one that most of us have experienced before , and figgis's staging is convincingly natural . again , figgis's staging is dead-on , and their passion has a visceral intensity . confusingly mesmerizing and handsomely filmed , the movie defies deconstruction but speaks to you through its subliminal messages . when you leave , you're more likely to feel the movie in your subconscious than to think about it directly . fight the urge to understand it . just enjoy it . it is rated r for strong sexual content , full-frontal nudity , violence and profanity . consider the movie nc-17 and for adults . 
1	it is completely predictable but full of a warm and generous heart . it says nothing you have not heard before , but it is a simple , sweet , and life affirming show to watch . the boy has good taste since the dog is extremely lovable , gentle , loyal , and smart--all believably so . it is easy to want to keep this dog . their parts are inconsequential and poorly written . rogers seems to go from one minor role to another which is a shame since she has a lot of talent . she was terrific in someone is watching over me and in the rapture . [now the rapture was an extremely unusual show] . the movie is about whether , and if so how , they will return . you could write the plot yourself . it is that simple . for a kids show though i thought it sufficed . i especially liked the way the boy always treated the dog with respect . the movie runs 1 : 30 which felt fine albeit perhaps a bit short . it is rated pg only for a few scary scenes of wild animals and dangerous cliffs . my son ( almost six ) handled it all fine and was only a little scared . he said he liked the movie . he and i would both give it a mild thumbs up for kids . for grown-ups , it is a sweet and relaxing time at the movies but it never engages your brain . for young kids , say under 5 , who might get scared of a wolf snarling , this movie might prove too much . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : january 30 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the opening credits for rat race perfectly serve their purpose of putting the audience into a suitably silly mood . each of the movie's long list of stars appears with his or her real head attached to a cartoon figure body that waddles by the titles like a drunk duck . working from a wonderfully wacky script by andy breckman ( sgt . throws in everything but the kitchen sink -- or maybe the sink was there -- in order to make us laugh , and the miracle is that most of it works . frequently the film falls back on old slapstick gags , but , more often than not , the jokes manage to be funny even you've seen similar moments before . the movie is a delightful throwback to old screwball comedies . there's some funny bathroom humor in the movie , but the majority of the jokes are so clean that they could be in g-rated comedy . ( the movie is pg-13 . ) the game is incredibly simple . it is " the gambling experience of a lifetime , " sinclair explains . the inspired script has the participants initially not participating . it seems as if the race will be a bust without even getting started . -- to its maximum advantage . only rowan atkinson , who acts like mr . bean channeling roberto benigni , is uniformly disappointing . his annoying character , who suffers from narcolepsy , is a klutz . one scene involving a heart could have been eliminated entirely . the fast paced film has lots of hilarious incidents , large and small , but to mention even their setup would diminish their impact . to be fair the film does run out of gas every now and then , but it just keeps plugging away , happy to run on fumes . the ending is something of a disappointment , but at least it is a surprise . it is rated pg-13 for " sexual references , crude humor , partial nudity and language " and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , thought the film was hilarious and gave it * * * 1/2 . he thought the acting was good , the story was imaginative and the ending was surprising . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	faster than someone can shout , " rewrite ! " she thinks a movie called something like to live would be more successful . we see his stories acted out , and it is increasingly obvious that they will all come together and the characters will not perish . after all , the title of the movie isn't to die ( for sure ) . there might be more , but the prime problem with to die ( or not ) is that , while the idea is cute , the writer has trouble finding interesting things to do with it , so the result isn't particularly memorable . still , to die ( or not ) is a pleasant picture . the first part is filmed in sleek black and white with disorienting camera angles and fast zooms . the second part switches to lush colors and more tranquil camera work . throughout , the movie is warmly scored with soothing classical , cello music . the uneven script tosses around some ideas about chance and god but doesn't develop them . the humor is similarly slapdash . to die ( or not ) leaves you thinking about the movie's premise but not the film itself . the film is in spanish with english subtitles . it is not rated but might be an r for brief nudity , sexuality , violence and language . it would be fine for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	screenplay : riwia brown . director : lee tamahori . critics are often heard complaining about the lack of originality in american filmmaking , about remakes , tv-retreads and tired concepts dominating the multiplexes . once were warriors is a wonderful example of what the movie-going experience can teach us given the opportunity . as an examination of the maori culture in contemporary new zealand , once were warriors showed me a world i had never seen before , and up until its overly melodramatic final half hour , it is a fascinating and unsettling drama . once were warriors has become a massive box office success in new zealand for addressing this culture which accounts for almost 10% of its population , but it doesn't require a stretch to recognize that it is a story which translates all too well to stories of america's economically disadvantaged minority cultures . it is a specific story , but in many ways it is also a universal one . the specific story is most effective thanks to several powerful performances . temuera morrison is even more complex as jake , because he makes a violent drunk appealing enough during his good moments to make the relationship convincing ; he is fred flintstone with a serious attitude . mamaengaroa kerr-bell , as the ever-more- pessimistic grace , is also good , as is taungaroa emile as the troubled boogie . while it is frighteningly real violence which drives once were warriors for much of its running time , pathos unfortunately takes over in the third act . there is a drawn-out sequence which gives everyone a chance to cry and make a speech , and characters start to speak in platitudes like , " you're still a slave , jake . . . a slave to your fists " and " i'll wear my ( tatoos ) on the inside . " by the end , i was wondering whether tamahori was taking his cue from hollywood , providing a feel-good resolution which tied up loose ends far too neatly , rather than sticking with the harsh realities of the world in which he has placed us . once were warriors is filled with memorable images , solid acting and a keen sense of place and character , but without even realizing it , tamahori has also told a story about urban sub-cultures far from his own home . 
2	if the score of immortal beloved is remarkable , that of the madness of king george is no less so . with the clear strains of handel's " water music " and " zadok the priest " in the background , the madness of king george ascends to a level that it might never have attained using a modern composer . the musical selections ( made by george fenton ) are so perfectly and expertly interwoven into the film that one might easily assume the score had been specifically written for nicholas hytner's production . the doctors--mostly a bunch of jumped-up quacks--do nothing for him . the madness of king george is much more than a simple study of one man's descent into insanity . with a style that's more tongue-in-cheek than melodramatic , the film is always witty and occasionally satirical . medical historians are generally agreed that the cause of george's madness was something called porphyria , an acute , intermittent , hereditary disease that is physical ( rather than mental ) in nature . the king's symptoms , including blue urine and gastric crises , match those of porphyria , although some have postulated that there may have been a secondary affliction , such as manic-depression , involved . whatever the case , as this film illustrates , it's clear that there were times when george was unfit to rule . another constantly takes the king's pulse . a third advocates examining the royal chamberpots--the stool being " more eloquent than the pulse . " only dr . willis , with his hypnotic gaze , gives the impression of competence . without exception , the acting is top-notch . the four principles--hawthorne , mirren , holm , and everett--do fine jobs . hawthorne's performance is especially noteworthy , allowing us to understand , and occasionally even sympathize , with a decidedly arrogant and dislikable personality . despite allusions to king lear , this movie's strength is in its story breadth , not its depth . a lot happens here , but few of the themes take root beyond their surface meaning . adapted from the play the madness of george iii , the film trims copious portions of dialogue , leaving behind a tightly-paced picture that has the feel of something created for the screen rather than for the stage . certain subplots are watered down or eliminated , but what survives is more than enough to keep king george a source of solid entertainment . 
1	french twist , a droll , uneven comedy from writer/director josiane blasko , starts fast and ends slow . in between , it offers more than a few double entendres , some farcical slapstick , and satirical jabs at the traditional male/female double standard and homophobia . with bright , endearing performances by victoria abril and blasko herself , and a game effort by alain chabat to infuse his two-timing creep of a husband with humanity , acting is not among french twist's weak points . plotting , on the other hand , definitely is . for the better part of an hour , this is a fresh , engaging comedy that mixes its laughs with unforced social commentary . the actors interact effectively , creating an ingenious triangle that always has one of its three components disconnected . unfortunately , around the time french twist reaches its midpoint , it starts to unravel . when , eighty minutes into the film , marijo comments that " the game's not over . there are three periods , " we're of the opinion that proceedings have long since moved into overtime . for example , a dirty joke told by a man is funny , but , told by a woman , it's vulgar . the " sauce for the goose " scenario is always an enjoyable conceit , and that's doubly true here because laurent is brimming over with hypocritical self-righteousness . blasko enjoys skewering his " macho " attitudes , and this aspect of her script is easily the most satisfying . although blasko tries to retain her characters' humanity , the over-the- top humor occasionally leeches it away . laurent is never particularly likable , and , despite chabet's best attempts , he doesn't develop believably into anything more substantial than an intolerant caricature . loli and marijo are better rounded , but there are times when even they strike a wrong chord . sometimes these scenes are funny , but they always disturb french twist's balance between overt comedy and light drama . taking any part of french twist too seriously would be a mistake , even though the film has a clear social agenda . sixty minutes in , we're entertained , and blasko is succeeding . half an hour later , the appeal is dwindling and we're waiting for the end credits . considering this film's erratic nature , it's difficult to fathom why the french government chose it as their official entry into the oscar race instead of the vastly-superior les miserables . the two aren't comparable , so perhaps the decision in favor of blasko's middling picture is the real french twist -- and not a very laudable one , at that . 
1	the plot of the ref has a lot of potential . the good news is that there were many times where the dialog in this black comedy had me laughing out loud . periodically , the director ( ted demme who i think is jonathan demme's brother ) would pick up the pace a la six degrees of separation and the film would really hum . the actors responded very well to the increased pacing and came alive . most of the time , however , the movie would start clicking and then some invisible hand would reach out and grab a lever and slow it down for no apparent reason . the characters would have been better if the script ( richard lagravenese and marie weiss ) were written a bit more sympathetically . i did not care about anyone in the show . well , i guess maybe the thief had some possibilities for likeableness . i read one review that said he thought the show was the funniest comedy he had ever seen , but when he saw it a second time he only barely liked it . he realized later than the first time , the theater was packed and the second time , it was pretty empty . i saw it in a sparsely occupied movie house . i think this show would work better with wall-to-wall people laughing . go saturday at 7pm i guess should be the strategy . the ref runs 1 : 30 and is rated r . if you see this show and love it , i would not be surprised . the dialog had a lot of promise and some big laughs . nevertheless , i thought the pacing was off and the characters were drawn too purely dark . i give it * * and a marginal thumbs down . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the riveting movie , the hurricane , is based on hurricane carter's true story . directed with loving intensity by norman jewison ( in the heat of the night and a soldier's story ) and starring denzel washington as hurricane carter , in a powerfully moving performance , the riveting movie is likely to earn them both oscar nominations . only in the middle section does the director allow his movie to meander for a bit , but he more than makes up for a slack 15 minutes or so with his rousing last act . cutting back and forth between timeframes , the movie tells hurricane's story . " i tasted my own blood , and i loved it . " jewison convincingly creates carter as a black gandhi . jewison makes the movie as much a detective story as a social commentary and biography . the chances that the current world boxing champion would do this are close to zero . rod steiger , who as the judge du jour seems to appear in every crime drama this year , is finally given the respect he deserves and allowed in this movie to play the part of a judge without parody . the best stories constantly surprise us , which is certainly true of this one . one particularly effective scene has carter , who prides himself on being a " warrior scholar , " talking passionately about the power and magic of writing . since that is my personal joy , i had this strange feeling that he speaking directly to me . like one of those paintings in which the eyes follow only you wherever you walk , this movie speaks to each of us and contains many more messages than you might guess . a picture that can be enjoyed and appreciated on many levels , it is a stunning piece of work that deserves high praise and big box office receipts . it is rated r for language and some violence and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	supervising director : hendel butoy . mpaa rating : g running time : 74 minutes . even today , 20 years after i first saw the original fantasia and 60 years after its premiere , i'm still not sure whether the entire concept is audaciously praiseworthy or pretentiously misguided . on the one hand , it could be seen as a sincere effort to bring kids to the castor oil of the classics , with a little eye candy as sweetener . more cynically , it could be seen as an attempt to persuade parents to take kids to a cartoon because it's really " good for them " -sort of like extolling pizza as nutritionally sound because it includes all four food groups . yet another possibility is that it's an intriguing case study in individual interpretation of an artistic work -- with all the peaks and valleys that concept entails . there's the sense that fantasia/2000's creative team felt obliged to maintain a balance between the experimental and the whimsical , when the experimental pieces are the ones that leave the strongest impression . most dazzling of all is butoy's computer-animated " pines of rome , " in which the image of whales soaring into the sky almost returns the literal meaning to the word " breathtaking ; " that moment alone made me wish i'd had the chance to experience the film in its imax incarnation from earlier this year . it's a wondrous piece of work that creates its own world , a feat the " firebird suite " segment comes close to matching ( though there's more than a little princess mononoke to the imagery ) . there is also an undeniable energy to the " rhapsody in blue " segment , directed by eric goldberg ( aladdin ) with a clockwork story sense and an obvious affection for the artists who inspired both the look and the sound . when fantasia/2000 really lets its creative talent loose to explore the unfamiliar , the results are impressive . with " pomp , " there's the greater problem of the music's undeniable connection to a specific context : graduation ceremonies . in fact , there's something just a bit off about all of the segments connected to instantly recognizable music-the grandiose abstractions of beethoven's fifth , the duck tales-goes-genesis " pomp , " even the generally satisfying " rhapsody in blue . " it may have been part of the fantasia plan to say , " look , here's another way to look at a piece of music you may have pigeonholed previously , " but it doesn't always work . a magical mickey defined " the sorcerer's apprentice " in the first fantasia ; an antediluvian donald just makes you wonder why all these animals are graduating from the ark . admittedly , a couple of them are good for laughs ( steve martin and penn & teller , to be specific ) . the rest are an overly reverential bore . it's a curious decision , because if there's one thing the rest of fantasia/200 is not , it's reverential . even when it flounders , it usually flounders because an experiment fails , not because someone was unwilling to experiment . and that's the faint damnation with which i ultimately praise the film : it doesn't always work , but even when it doesn't work , it's in ways that make it obvious someone was still trying . this fantasia inclines me to the perspective that it should be seen as a showcase for pure inspiration , a way to see how fine art can in turn inspire more fine art . this version is an uneven realization of that vision . i'll still be looking forward to fantasia/2060 . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	it is by the director ( giuseppe tornatore ) of the widely acclaimed and oscar-winning cinema paradiso . it is a great little story of a movie talent scout and huckster who scours poor but picturesque sicily enticing the locals with the promise of great riches . from offscreen the talent scout sticks his hand in to pat him on the back and reassure him with a simple , but forceful " very good . " some do it straight , " afterall tomorrow is another day , " whereas other embellish it or localize it . there is one especially funny scene with some old tough guys rehearsing scarlet's lines to each other . i don't want to disappoint you , " but most people he makes feel sure that they will be the one picked to be the next movie star . like a woody allen movie , the first thirty minutes or so of the picture is filled with scores and scores of people doing short screen tests . some people are fun to watch and some are incredibly boring and repetitive which is one of the major downfalls of this format when it is carried on for so long . these scenes needed much stronger editing by massimo quaglia . instead , he keeps too many scenes in and just makes them too short and choppy to conserve time . how he avoids death makes for a fantastic scene . joe is confused and frighten by all of this . one of the major problems with the film is that the script by fabio rinaudo and giuseppe tornatore is too talky . the images and the plot are more than enough to carry the show , yet many scenes have way too much dialog which amount to little . the simpler scenes are by far and away the best . overall , i thought the script was the weakest part of the film and was badly in need of rework . it needed to be much more focused . beata has a simple view of the movies , " i like love stories where everybody kisses and are happy ever after . " lodato is a great , but simple actress who plays her part with great sensuality and feeling . quite a compelling performance . sergio castellitto gives a sweet performance , but i thought lodato upstaged him with a smaller role . a long , fanciful , funny , and hopeful part switches to a morose shorter part . i thought the first part worked well , but the writer seemed to run out of energy and ideas toward the end . the first part is imaginative and unique ; the last is pure formula . overall , i thought the plot and the concept were better than the execution . it could and should have been much better , but i certainly enjoyed it , and i hope to see both of the leads again , especially tiziana lodato . the picture is beautifully filmed by dante spinotti with sets of tremendous natural beauty . the sicilian countryside manages to outshine most of the people in joe's screen tests . it is in italian with english subtitles . it is rated r . it has sex , full frontal nudity , bad language , and some violence , but would be fine for any teenager . flaws and all , i liked the film , and i think you will too so i am giving it a thumbs up and awarding it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	when viewing a melodrama like a thousand acres , it's easy to label it as a " chick flick " or a " tearjerker . " however , such a facile categorization would do the movie a disservice , since it possesses a layer of depth that most films of this sort lack . director jocelyn moorhouse , working from laura jones' adaptation of jane smiley's novel , gives a thousand acres the emotional pitch of fried green tomatoes ( even though the stories are vastly dissimilar ) . although the plot is undeniably overwrought at times , the characters remain strong and reliable , and it's their believability that pulls us through . the story is presented from the point-of-view of fortysomething ginny cook smith ( jessica lange ) , who burdens the film with a voiceover narrative that is occasionally useful , but more often tedious . a thousand acres has a choppy feel , almost certainly the result of the book-to-screen transition , and the pre-epilogue ending happens with surprising suddenness . subplots get short changed and characters seemingly disappear without warning . arguably , the complexity of the storyline may be too ambitious for 100-plus minute running time . nevertheless , moorhouse ( how to make an american quilt ) does a fine job with the material she is given to work with . in lesser hands , this could have turned into little more than another big-screen soap opera . however , by generating an effective rapport between the audience and the main characters , moorhouse gives us some meat to chew on . she also manages to develop a number of multi-dimensional characters by showing the good and bad in everyone . some will doubtless complain that the film engages in routine man-bashing , but anyone who looks carefully will see that the women are nearly as flawed as their male counterparts . three of the four leads give powerful performances . michelle pfeiffer shows an edge that we're unaccustomed to . this isn't a lightweight glamour role , and she is up to the challenge of pulling it off . jason robards manages to bring out both sides of larry -- the evil , lecherous creep and the fumbling , lost old man . only jennifer jason leigh is less-than-impressive , and that's more a function of the lack of exposure and development accorded to her character than a knock on her performance . a thousand acres covers a lot of ground , and raises numerous questions about the demons that some families keep buried . this is the kind of movie that you experience more with your emotions than with your intellect . it's not a dumb film , but its undisputed strength lies in the way it tears at the heart . moorhouse's manipulation is skillful , and that makes it easier to forgive the occasional missteps . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
1	i gave the movie 2 stars . i liked it but could not recommend it . overall the show was a mess . you could fall asleep in parts it went so slow . you may remember gyllenhaal from all of the tv movies he has directed . perhaps you saw his awful paris trout on tv . the movie centered around winger's sexuality . she gave an absolutely wonderful performance . very realistic . i wish she had a better director . the other people in the movie were acceptable but nothing special . there is one scene in the movie that was more chilling than any horror show . best to close your eyes and hold your ears - it was frightening . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : december 6 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	screenplay : jonathan hensleigh , wesley strick . director : phillip noyce . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , violence , drug use , adult themes ) running time : 117 minutes . i figure it happened something like this : in the wake of mission : impossible's impressive box office performance , the development executives at paramount were tossing around plot ideas for the sequel . " so what other properties do we own ? " " um , i think we have 'the saint' , " answers executive #2 . it is a nice set-up for a story about an enigmatic loner . unfortunately , it has nothing to do with the character as played by val kilmer . there isn't much haunted , complex history in his characterization ; kilmer spends most of the film looking tremendously self-satisfied , posing behind each disguise and purring every accent . sure it's fun watching kilmer play a variety of eccentric characters , and you can bet that he knows it . when the film takes a sudden shift in tone near the conclusion , turning into a light-hearted caper for the final ten minutes , it actually seems as though director phillip noyce ( clear and present danger ) threw up his hands and decided to let the saint become the film kilmer had been acting in for the previous 100 minutes . actually , it's never clear what the saint is supposed to be . for an action film , it certainly treats the ostensibly primary plot and its associated action as an afterthought . it is interesting to see new faces like serbedzija and valery nikolaev ( as tretiak's son ) in the villain roles , but the roles themselves aren't interesting at all . there are a couple of sharp sequences when the saint actually does provide some action -- emma's dash for the american embassy and simon's unnerving underwater stay in an icy river are particularly notable -- but too many other moments fall flat . some of the action appears to have been salvaged from mission : impossible's cutting room floor , with editing that butchers punch lines , introduces and discards supporting characters , and leaves plenty of threads dangling and questions unanswered . if anyone can explain to me the importance of the microchip the saint steals from tretiak , or why tretiak never makes an effort to retrieve it , i'd sure like to know . i suppose it might seem hypocritical of me to knock the saint for spending so much time developing the romance between simon and emma after i have criticized plenty of other action films for spending no time at all on such matters . shue struggles to make some sense out of a character who has to deliver a lot of exposition and whose weak heart is magically strengthened by love , but it's hard to play a romantic scene with someone who seems to love himself even more than you love him . the saint was unlikely to be a great film even without kilmer's preening , but it would have been a less grating one . perhaps the _real_ sequel to mission : impossible should involve someone trying to tame kilmer's ego . 
2	screenplay : guy ritchie . director : guy ritchie . it's tough to knock a film as undeniably invigorating as lock , stock and two smoking barrels without coming off as an impossible-to-please crank . yes , it's generally funny , clever and unpredictable ; true , it's plotted with a precision that should make aspiring screenwriters take notes ; indeed , it has visual style to spare . guy ritchie's caper/comedy/thriller has a savage entertainment value that's awfully hard to find anymore . it's also a film without an ounce of humanity , a narrative machine where the fun feels hollow because the characters come with names and virtually nothing more . that's a problem that really only nags in hindsight , since you'll spend all your viewing time just trying to keep up . believe it or not , that's the simple part of the multi-layered plotting in lock , stock and two smoking barrels . there are plenty of occasions during the first half of the film when it feels over-populated , over-plotted and over-directed , sending situations , vertiginous camera angles and new faces at the audience in overwhelming waves . only ritchie's appealing wit might keep you from throwing up your hands and throwing in the towel . fortunately , the second and third acts offer so much propulsive action that forgiveness for the early excesses becomes fairly easy . ritchie manages to pull all these threads together quite deftly , creating a series of confrontations which continuously whip up new permutations of violence , dark humor and surprise . there are missteps here as well -- including a depiction of the protagonists' celebrating an apparent victory which resembles a drinking binge by the monkees -- but the caper itself is engrossing enough to help hide them . lock , stock and two smoking barrels blindsides you with its sheer momentum , the pieces falling into place so rapidly that you can't help but admire ritchie's audacity . it's considerably harder to admire his thoroughgoing lack of interest in his characters except as gun-toting props . every bit of color in the film's performances comes from the use of physical types -- the bald , imposing barry ; the short , high-strung rory ; strapping but soft-spoken big chris . quentin tarantino often is credited with inspiring a slew of nihilistic comic-crime imitators , but tarantino's way with actors and redemption-hungry characters has always given him away as a closet humanist , and has always tempered his infamous violent streak . you can't knock a director in 1999 who at least makes you want to watch . you just wish this rowdy bit of entertainment made you want to care about something , anything , besides how many bodies will pile up before the credits roll . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	a syrupy serving of freudian analysis that looks tempting but tastes of too much superego , id , and subconsious jive to be taken seriously . it's hollywood's version about what psychoanalysis is all about , which is making the analyst a combination of a savior and parental figure who can magically unlock the secrets of the mentally ill by offering them love and concern on a couch . this is the first major film about that subject , and its sincere presentation to show it in its best light is often awkward and seems quite outdated when viewed today . hitchcock throws in a murder mystery that works a little better than all the mumbo jumbo psych 1 lingo the viewer must sit through . it's a very heavy-handed film that is earnestly played by the stars , but has no resonance . it was one of the master's weaker films , yet it's still worth seeing because there are many imaginative hitchcock touches throughout . the script was written by ben hecht , who obviously didn't have much of a feel for the subject-matter . ingrid and peck do their best to work through the stale lines they are forced to say , though they never make their characters believable despite their best thespian efforts . this film is really spellbound . 
0	director : frederik duchau . mpaa rating : g ( some scary action ) running time : 80 minutes . there are plenty of good reasons why i try to write reviews as soon as possible after seeing a film . some are purely practical , like the deadlines that stack up one against the other as friday release-date approaches ; some are philosophical , like the desire not to be influenced by any other opinions i might hear . quest for camelot has provided me with yet another reason , perhaps the best yet -- when you're dealing with a film as hopelessly bland as this one , you'll be lucky if you can remember a single detail 48 hours later . and i do mean " blah . " quest for camelot is one of the most ennervated animated films in recent memory , a lifeless conglomeration of elements each more instantly forgettable than the last . visually , it offers uninspired settings and lackluster character design until the appearance of a nifty computer-generated ogre . the comic relief isn't much of a relief at all , serving up a volley of pop culture pot shots ( taxi driver , dirty harry , friday the 13th , superman ) , banal bickering between the dragon's two heads and cringe-inducing voice casting like bronson pinchot and jaleel white . of course we also need to have songs , which means a truly awful bunch of david foster/carol bayer sager compositions alternating between middle-of-the-road piffle and soporific show-stoppers . director frederik duchau can't even manage to get his voice talent to sound vaguely enthusiastic ; brosnan reads the legendary king of the britons as though he needs a prozac far more than he needs excalibur . quest for camelot's story seems well-intentioned enough , empowering its misfit heroes despite the various obstacles to success they face . unfortunately , that's about all the story offers . the film moves with a deadening listlessness , as duchau bungles the few genuine bits of action with bizarre decisions like scoring a tense chase scene to the big love ballad . the choice of elwes as the voice of kayley's guide through the forest proves to be a huge mistake , reminding viewers familiar with the princess bride of westley's infinitely more engaging romantic adventures through the fire swamp with buttercup . eventually , the failure of the rest of the story makes even the empowerment message annoying , playing like an anachronistic scolding of the round table for including only fully-abled white male humans . as i vainly searched for something to hold my attention , i kept noticing the children in the theater wandering up and down the aisles , or engaged in conversations far more lively than anything on the screen . i can't imagine why a parent would subject their children to being bored silly by a film like quest for camelot , especially when adults will probably be bored even sillier . then again , i suppose there would be a bright side : two days later , they'll never even remember what they had to sit through . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	screenplay/director : stephan elliott . you know the times are a-changing when drag queens are to be the subject of * two * movies in the space of one year . we're not talking about some like it hot or tootsie or mrs . doubtfire ; we're talking about genuine , larger-than-life , cattier-than-felix drag queens . you might not think it the most marketable of subjects , but production is underway on a studio project featuring wesley snipes , to wong foo , thanks for everything , julie newmar . while it's gentle and respectful of its characters , it's also a big , goofy musical filled with belly laughs . however , priscilla proves to be something less than a royal coach , and its many breakdowns serve as preludes to a series of culture-clash encounters between the off-beat threesome and the considerably more conservative townspeople they meet along the way . perhaps the wisest decision made by writer-director stephan elliott was not to spend too much time contriving an excuse for priscilla's passengers to go west . the three principles are marvelous characters spectacularly performed . guy pearce plays adam as completely carefree , a flamboyant youth who has had little experience with confronting ugly prejudice . bernadette , on the other hand , is much more experienced , and grows impatient with adam's giddy bitchiness . as bernadette , terence stamp delivers a knock-out performance , summoning a uniquely genuine femininity to accompany a light-hearted world-weariness . stamp is also a treat in priscilla's marvelously staged musical numbers . while mitzi and felicia perform with sass and energy , bernadette goes through the motions professionally but looking exactly like she " did this * years * ago . " costume supervisor emily seresin deserves special kudos for the wild outfits which highlight the film ; particularly noteworthy is an impromptu performance of " i will survive " for an audience of aboriginals ( accompanied by digeridoo ) , and the big show at the resort featuring numerous gaudy costume changes . there is one truly unfortunate element in priscilla , and it really leaves a bad taste in the mouth . her character , and accompanying performance launching ping-pong balls from a portion of her anatomy , are truly unworthy of this film . but if you're willing to grit your teeth through her appearance , priscilla will prove to be a mostly delightful piece of entertainment , suprisingly wise and touching . 
0	certain ideas are excellent material for short features on programs like saturday night live or in living color . properly padded , it's possible that a few of those premises could even make passable 1/2 hour television programs . however , stretching things beyond a certain point courts disappointment . in the case of movies of this type , the plot is superfluous , and most of the time it doesn't make much sense anyway , but here are the basics . from the start , it's obvious that this is a vehicle for his comedy , and it mostly works--for about ten to fifteen minutes . after that , mr . carrey's act gradually grows less humorous and more tiresome , and the laughter in the audience seems forced . that's not to say that the film is never funny , because it has its moments , including some inspired take-offs on the original star trek ( in which mr . carrey does a hilarious send-up of william shatner's " dramatic pauses " ) , mission impossible , and , perhaps best of all , the crying game ( complete with the boy george version of the title track ) . however , between these moments of mirth , there's a lot of dead screen time . after the initial amusement of watching mr . carrey's face twist into numerous odd expressions has worn off , the best way to pass the time is keeping an eye on courtney cox as she tries vainly to hold a straight face in the midst of her co-star's antics . like the other movies loosely grouped in this category ( which include the two wayne's worlds and , to a lesser extent , the naked gun-type flicks ) , the humor is very much of the hit-or-miss variety . unfortunately for ace ventura , too many of the jokes not only aren't funny , but aren't funny while thinking that they are . there are undoubtedly a lot of fans of fire marshal bill and jim carrey's humor . for them , ace ventura delivers the expected gags ( many of which are scatological in nature , and almost all of which have the potential to offend a " sensitive " viewer ) and an elongated opportunity to see mr . carrey in action . for just about everyone else , this is likely to be far too much of something best taken in small doses . 
1	" you take a step and are blown to pieces . " this philosophical film by writer/director valerie breiman would have been more aptly titled reflections on relationships , but , of course , the current title is a more marketable one . love and sex there is , but the characters spend more time discussing the twin subjects than engaging in them . and when it comes to sex , janssen would appear to have a no-nudity clause in her contract , since she stays partially clothed in situations which would much more naturally be engaged in without underwear . although most of the staging never quite rings true , the movie does commendably place both of the leads in real jobs that they actually go to . most cinematic characters appear to live off of some off-screen sugar daddy , permitting them to live without the toils of work . kate's only honest piece of writing -- about oral sex as a cure for depression -- is rejected by the magazine's eponymous owner , played without emotion by ann magnuson . " hey , i believe in relationships . they have the sort of strange chemistry whereby they both think that it's funny that he calls her a whore . they also enjoy sharing bedtime flatulence . like the rest of the reflective characters , eric is full of dating suggestions . as witty as the script is , the direction is way off the mark . the cast almost uniformly suffers from a bad of case of low energy . scenes seem designed more for cuteness than believability . and never is the chemistry between adam and kate genuine , which is the kiss of death for a romantic comedy . although the movie has some wonderfully acerbic moments and some insightful parts , it is basically forgettable fluff . you'll kind of enjoy it while you're there , but after you leave you'll wonder why you ever bothered . it is rated r for language and sexual situations and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
2	cast : garance clavel , zinedine soualem , olivier py , renee le calm , =20 romain duris , joel brisse director : cedric klapisch producer : aissa djabri screenplay : cedric klapisch cinematography : benoit delhomme u . s . distributor : sony pictures classics in french with subtitles part documentary , part narrative fiction , when the cat's away=20 represents one of the year's most offbeat approaches to a character=20 study . set in paris' bastille quarter , cedric klapisch's film offers an=20 involving , occasionally poignant portrait of an insecure twentysomething=20 woman named chloe ( garance clavel ) . indeed , =20 although klapisch doesn't dwell upon paris' gentrification , it=20 represents one of his film's important subtexts ( watch for the highly=20 symbolic scenes depicting the destruction of an old building ) . it's no accident that much of when the cat's away has a " real " feel=20 =96 many of the supporting performers , who are playing themselves , are=20 amateurs with no previous acting experience . in fact , klapisch was so=20 intrigued by the colorful secondary characters that he greatly expanded=20 the movie's length ( it was originally devised as a 20-minute short ) to=20 take advantage of their presence . her plaintive question of " why am i all alone ? " is one that=20 many individuals across the world can relate to . klapisch's decision to rely upon many unproven actors has mixed=20 results . some of them are clearly raw , occasionally delivering lines=20 awkwardly . others , on the other hand , such as the eccentric madame=20 renee , are natural performers , and they provide the film with some of=20 its best comic sequences . not=20 only is clavel an excellent actress with expressive features , but she=20 has an undeniable screen presence . when the cat's away claims a premise so simple that it's easy to=20 wonder how a full length feature could be developed from it , but the=20 results are profound and moving . there's a little bit of chloe in all=20 of us , i think , and that's why it's so easy to relate to this searching=20 young woman . klapisch injects enough comedy to keep when the cat's away=20 light , but not so much that he turns it into a farce or dilutes the=20 film's dramatic content . this picture is yet another unconventional=20 french export worthy of notice , and is a welcome addition to the=20 season's movie schedule . 
1	perhaps it's an indication of how far we have come , but gay coming-of-age films are becoming as formula-bound and potentially trite as straight coming-of-age films . have been there , and we have done that . to paraphrase my colleague mike d'angelo , we have to ask ourselves whether we would care about the people or the situation if the central romantic entaglements were heterosexual , and often the answer is no . gay or straight , " i was never the same after that summer " films often go nowhere new or interesting . edge of seventeen does try to take us somewhere new , exploring an angle most gay-themed films only view as an afterthought : how friends and family respond to a startling coming-out . in some ways , edge of seventeen is quite a conventional independent film examining gay subject matter . fortunately , even those scenes are sparked by the unaffected , appealing work of stafford in the lead role . his goofy innocence and teen-jim carrey grin generate surprising sympathy in eric's predicament as he begins exploring his sexuality in secret . the technical credits may be predictably shaky and the supporting performances uneven ( gabrych is somewhat wooden as eric's first love ) , but edge of seventeen manages to hold some interest in its story even when it's not revolutionary . . . and it is amusing to hear the bronski beat again . the really good news in edge of seventeen also turns out , ultimately , to be the bad news . the film's best two best performances emerge when stafford and director david moreton begin to address the confusion of those who don't know how to react when a loved one announces that he's gay . as sensitively as the filmmakers handle eric's various experimentations , none of them bear quite the emotional impact of the responses of these two women to eric's sexual orientation . in general , edge of seventeen feels neither revelatory nor redundant , merely unfolding with a simple honesty that makes it feel blandly familiar . the strength of two young performers -- particularly holmes , an actress to watch for -- elevates the film a bit above its like-themed kin , but not as much as a different focus might have done . if he had run with that unique angle , he might have been on to a really good film instead of a slightly-above-average story of how someone was never the same after that summer . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	a most improbable but engaging romantic mystery that holds our attention and teases our sensibilities . there are signs that what is happening to the two lovers is getting to be heavy , and what seems to be is not exactly what is . the storyline is awkward , melodramatic and incredulous , and the ending is somewhat ludicrous and overplayed , but what becomes interesting is the psychological games played by the couple . the basque director/writer has created a story with enough twists in it to keep you guessing at what will happen next , but the film left me with a bitter-sweet reaction to the romance . 
2	written and directed by john herzfeld ( 2 days in the valley ) , the uneven movie has trouble deciding what kind of picture it wants to be . at first , it goes for light comedic drama , and the parts of the bad guys could easily have been played by robin williams in his full comedic schtick mode . this light heartedness gives way to an intense and sometimes quite violent crime drama . the intriguing movie works in fits and spurts but keeps you with it even with some troubling logical problems . still , de niro and burns are both terrific , so it is a movie whose flaws can be easily overlooked . 15 minutes runs two hours . it is rated r for strong violence , language and some sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	cast : val kilmer , elisabeth shue , rade serbedzija , valery nikolaev , henry goodman , irina apeximova director : phillip noyce producers : david brown , robert evans , william j . macdonald , mace neufeld screenplay : jonathan hensleigh and wesley strick from a story by jonathan hensleigh cinematography : phil meheux music : graeme revell u . s . distributor : paramount pictures i can't help but wonder if the saint was given the final go-ahead following the success of 1995's james bond redux , goldeneye . this film , which plays very much like a low-key 007 yarn , began production in march 1996 , shortly after the bond movie's domestic gross topped $100 million . nevertheless , despite a few taut action sequences , some effective chemistry between the male and female leads , and a globetrotting storyline ( the far east to england to russia ) , the saint can't quite measure up to pierce brosnan's superspy debut . the problem , however , is more one of history and mystique than plotting and acting . that's not to say that the saint doesn't have a history of its own -- just that this movie doesn't have goldeneye's cinematic pedigree . in fact , the character of the saint predates bond by more than twenty-five years ( in both written and film incarnations ) . this '90s version of the saint takes its inspiration in part from charteris' books and in part from the tv series ( including a few notes from edwin astley's theme song ) , but incorporates all the latest in technology . the saint purports to tell the origins of the title character , something that charteris never wrote about . the saint is more of a character-based thriller than a strict stunts-and-explosions film , which is a good thing because the action sequences are mostly flat and obligatory . even when he generates a degree of tension , director phillip noyce ( patriot games , clear and present danger ) is unable to sustain it , and the disappointing ending is not only long and drawn out , but lacks a sense of closure . it's nice to set up a movie for a sequel , but the saint concludes in such a way that the story seems somehow incomplete . acting and character development lie at the saint's core . other than kilmer and shue , the only actors with much screen time are valery nikolaev and veteran rade serbedzija . he gets to shout lines like " i want to see russia not cut off at the knees , but armed to the teeth ! " the location work is noteworthy . the scenes filmed outside of the kremlin have an eerie sense of verisimilitude ( russian director nikita mikhalkov , whose burnt by the sun won an oscar in 1995 , helped make the arrangements that allowed noyce to film in red square ) . and , while the saint stops short of being a travelogue of moscow , it does offer a number of fascinating glimpses into one of russia's most historic cities . anyone expecting anything remarkable or new about the saint will be disappointed . simon templar's latest adventure is fairly standard material , although it is brought to the screen with a certain degree of style . paramount has wisely decided to release the film before the summer blockbuster season . big box office returns would still surprise me , however . the saint is lightly entertaining , but there's very little here worth getting excited about . 
2	and then there's the other kind . [mother] is about the other kind . " -- albert brooks in discussing the pantheon of living american motion picture funny men , names like jack lemmon , billy crystal , steve martin , robin williams , and eddie murphy are likely to surface . brooks , who started his public life as a standup comedian before moving into writing , directing , and acting in feature films , has done screen work every bit as hilarious as any of the aforementioned names , and his latest effort , mother , proves that he's quite capable of bouncing back from a failure ( 1994's the scout , which he co-wrote and starred in , but did not direct ) . in the formula-laden playground of modern comedies , mother comes as a breath of fresh air . unlike most of 1996's so-called " laugh fests " , this one relies on smart humor rather than slapstick , puns , and dumb jokes with quick payoffs . brooks doesn't use the airplane approach to comedy . his films aren't loaded with hit-and-miss gags . the director/writer strives for quality over quantity , and when he wants the audience to laugh , they generally do so . mother doesn't have much of a plot . in fact , what little story there is functions mostly as a framing device for two good performances and a stream of rich , intelligent dialogue . brooks has a keen eye for comedy in normal , natural situations . much of the humor in this film works because we can relate to it . regardless of your race , class , or creed , many of the situations represented in mother will have a familiar feel . for john , this is only the latest in a long line of failed relationships . it would have been easy for brooks' script ( co-written by monica johnson ) to treat mrs . henderson as a caricature . most comedies would have opted for that route , i think . the result might have been funny , but it wouldn't have been as meaningful . although mother boasts a host of hilarious one-liners , the best moments are the extended episodes that delve into everyday life . all of these sequences could have been short , but brooks allows them to develop and play out naturally , letting the comedy bubble to the surface rather than escape in one sudden , contrived explosion . while brooks is solid and likable as john , the scene-stealer is debbie reynolds , who is taking on her first starring role since the '70s . reynolds , who is probably best remembered as the leading lady in singing in the rain , sparkles as beatrice , bringing a quality to this role that will make some motherly aspect instantly recognizable to nearly everyone in the audience . rob morrow ( last dance ) , an actor of limited range and passable talent who hasn't impressed me since his television to film transition , is well-cast as john's obnoxious , shallow brother . admittedly , mother has a weak beginning and ending , but the material in between is what makes it worth watching . this probably isn't the funniest or most inventive comedy of the year , but it gets high marks in both categories . from the parody of simon and garfunkel's " mrs . robinson " to the scenes of beatrice attempting to work a video- phone , mother represents more than just another carbon-copy , unfunny comedy . 
1	in a year that has seen numerous " boy's-point-of-view " stories , this is one of the better entries . however , instead of going for the nostalgia and sentimentality that many of these movies attempt , tito and me is basically a straightforward tale with a light touch and a serious message . zoran is forced to face the disappointing truth that childhood heros are often little more than self-constructed icons with personalities nothing like those attributed to them by a worshipful youth . the most interesting portion of tito and me is the first half , which concentrates on zoran's home and school life . his initial relationship with jasna is presented realistically with all the uncertainty of a child's first crush , and the confused interaction of the two families living within zoran's house is at once funny and poignant . the latter half of the film deals with the walking tour through yugoslavia's hinterlands , and this is only fitfully successful as zoran's disillusionment is brought forcefully to the fore . some of the comedy during these sequences seems both out-of-place and occasionally cruel . there's a lot of comedy in this film - some overt , but as much subtle . tito and me often succeeds because of its light tone ; a lugubrious movie with the same sort of message could easily turn the audience off or put them to sleep . with the exception of lazar ristovski , whose buffoonish raja is over-the- top , the acting is excellent . young dimitrie vojnov should especially be singled out for his natural , unaffected performance as zoran . it is in large part due to his effortless portrayal that tito and me is effective . numerous black-and-white clips of the real tito are used throughout the film and , while these are interesting for historical reasons , they create a slight artistic problem . the actor who plays tito ( voja brajovic ) looks absolutely nothing like the real man . as a result , with so many shots of the legitimate figure , it becomes difficult to accept the actor in the role . tito and me is a fine , fresh motion picture with a universal theme . you don't have to have been raised in 1954 yugoslavia to understand or enjoy this movie , which has a deceptively strong message for such a breezy tone . 
0	in the rage : carrie 2 , robert mandel's terminally bland sequel to carrie , there isn't a single original moment . only amy irving returns from carrie , and the talent of the rest of the sequel's cast is impossible to determine given the stupefying mediocrity of rafael moreu's script . as rachel , the horror story's lead , emily bergl gives one of the least scary performances in recent memory , but it isn't exactly her fault . the director asks for little from his actors , which is precisely what he gets . sporadically in this lame and lifeless movie , rachel will cause school lockers and windows to fly open , but generally she just mopes around looking like a victim . as the movie marks time until its big finale , it throws in some repugnant scenes , hoping to turn audience's stomachs . the teenagers in the movie are completely blas ? about it all . " doesn't it offend you that some girl offed herself yesterday , " asks one of the few kids with a conscience . " why ? " remarkably devoid of any energy , especially for a horror flick , the movie makes one yearn for a fast forward button on the theater's armrest . with material this bad , the film's only hope is to go for parody , but it isn't smart enough to realize it . even the mandatory epilogue is as pointless and predictable as the rest of the movie . it is rated r for graphic violence , teen alcohol abuse , sex , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable only for older teenagers . 
2	steal this movie ! ( the title is guaranteed to strike the same terror in the hearts of video store owners when the movie makes its way to video that abbie hoffman's book , " steal this book ! " the unabashedly one-sided movie by director robert greenwald , a friend of abbie and anita hoffman , is a lucid and intriguing tale of perhaps the most famous of the vietnam war protestors . freed from any pretense of objectivity , the fast-paced movie creates a flattering story as the late abbie hoffman might himself have told . " dull is deadly " , abbie explains as the rationale for his outlandish theatrics . vincent d'onofrio turns in an energetic and endearing performance as the charismatic , smart abbie hoffman , a self-described " long-haired , revolutionary freak . " the strong supporting cast includes donal logue , who appears in every other movie this summer and in various sizes from his pillsbury dough boy in the tao of steve to his more modest size this time as stew albert , abbie's best friend . kevin pollak does a nice turn as gerry lefcourt , abbie's savvy and tolerant lawyer . bruce graham's bright script , based on books by abbie and anita hoffman and by marty jezer , is funny and insightful . " if you don't like abbie's mood , wait a minute , " anita tells johanna about abbie , who was eventually diagnosed as a manic-depressive . ever the philosopher , abbie's mouth is a shotgun of ideas . the movie does a marvelous job of authentically capturing the look and mood of the period . the movie dichotomizes the people in abbie's life into either friends or enemies , with the former being the world's good guys and the latter being the bad . the police , especially the fbi , are uniformly depicted as little better than the gestapo . too often , films with strong political agendas present us with false alternatives rather than admitting that they are really only telling one side of the argument . steal this movie ! works precisely because it stays strictly true to its opinions . you may not subscribe to them , but you'll understand them much better after seeing the picture . and you'll gain fascinating insights into the life of someone you may have never even cared about before . but , most of all , you'll have a high old time while reliving one of our nation's more turbulent eras . steal this movie ! it is rated r for language , drug content and some nudity and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
1	it is a movie on an epic scale about a physician during the restoration . in the opening credits we learn that it is the time in england of the restoration of charles ii's monarchy as well of scientific endeavors and of pleasure . the puritans would have never permitted it . the movie has three distinct but related parts : the court , the quakers , and the plague . each has enough material to be a movie in its own right , but screenwriter rupert walters ( using a novel by rose tremain ) and editor garth craven have conspired to chop this all down to a movie of less than two hours in length . it felt as if it was a three and a half hour movie that the studio had ordered cut to a standard length for marketability . for whatever reason they did it , it makes for a choppy movie that is a delight to the senses , but leaves you wanting more that the movie delivers . as the movie opens we see the hustle and bustle of seventeenth century london . as the camera lens draws closer we see its squalor . it is a sweatshop where they do not even have adequate time to eat , but at least they get to do medical research of a sort . we are to assume that merivel is a great womanizer although to this point the movie has only touched on it , again reinforcing my theory that much film was left on the cutting room floor . the real motivation for seeing restoration is the production itself with sets by eugenio zanetti , costumes by james acheson , and cinematography by oliver stapleton . from the first open shot of london with its golden earth tones and elaborate set reminiscent of a brueghel painting , we sense that this picture will be special . my favorite cinematographic technique in the movie is the way light rushes in windows to bath the occupants of the room as if the light were the hand of god . indeed it was the only thing expressly forbidden of you . " in the second act , we have merivel among the quakers trying to be a physician again . this is done a bit too realistically for my taste . for some reason , meg ryan attempts a thick irish accent whereas the other people have little noticeable accents . it is quite distracting . we learn many interesting historical tidbits like when a plague strikes a building everyone in it is quarantined whether sick or not , which usually means they will all die . i have just skimmed the surface of this tale . you can learn almost all of the above facts in the marvelous trailer for the movie . in fact the trailer is much better that the film itself . in the trailer the music ( james newton howard ) is heavy and dramatic , the energy level is high , and the images are so strong they have a spirituality . after seeing the trailer i almost expected to see something on the level of the ten commandments . while watching restoration i realized that i wished they would have just put the trailer on an endless loop and let me watch it for two hours . i liked restoration , but i would have much preferred the trailer . the problem with restoration can be summed up in two words , poor direction . the compelling visuals are populated with a bunch of actors actresses plying their trade not viable characters . i found them all interesting , but never did i find them believable . when tragedy strikes in the show , i didn't care . i thought sam neill's performance to be the best of a mediocre lot . this is a shame since the actors and actresses are some of the best . restoration stops way too fast at 1 : 53 . it is rated r for tame ogres , some sex , brief male and female nudity , and way too realistic medieval medical practices . it would be fine for any teenager . it is such an incredible exercise in style that i am glad i saw it so i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 , but i felt cheated after seeing the trailers and knowing what could have been . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 26 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the movie delightfully mixes the romance and fighting of the play with some equally high-spirited antics off stage . the dialog from the play works its way into the scenes outside of the theater . " no , we haven't the time , talk prose , " philip says , interrupting him . it is the small details that separate great films from lesser ones , and it is here that shakespeare in love proves its mettle . the hilarious auditions and rehearsals are both insightful and humorous . the acting talent from which will has to choose is not all top drawer . in a perfect bit of casting , gwyneth paltrow , in clearly the best performance of her career , plays viola , a rich but untitled young woman . in the film's long romantic middle section , which nicely mirrors the middle of the play they are rehearsing , viola and will are so much in love that they have trouble keeping their hands and lips off of each other . these sensuous sequences make the picture one of the best date movies of the year . the film has as many subplots as a shakespearean play but manages to develop them well and still stay within the time limitations of a traditional length motion picture . brown ) plays a different queen this time , elizabeth i . the movie ends with the production of the play and some last minute role changes . the movie uses the words of the play to suggest meanings for the actors on and off stage . " o , i am fortune's fool ! " will says aptly . the script will sweep you away . the movie is for lovers , for students , for budding actors , for connoisseurs of fine comedy , and for just about everyone . it is rated r for sex and nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	screenplay : thomas ropelewski . director : john schlesinger . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( adult themes , profanity , brief nudity ) running time : 105 minutes . you can be sure that the next best thing will find plenty of viewers unsympathetic to its message in support of unconventional family structure -- the christian coalition , for example , or the utah state legislature . we may have come a long way , baby , in matters of social tolerance , but we haven't come _that_ far . still , you would expect the people involved in making the next best thing to have the passion to turn it into a compelling story . john schlesinger is one of the few openly gay directors making hollywood films . and madonna well , i saw truth or dare , so i get the impression she's fairly familiar with alternative lifestyles . what , then , is the excuse for the next best thing turning out so generally dreary and uninspired ? as with many films , so far so good in the general concept department . it's only in the execution that the next best thing becomes an ordeal to endure . the character of abbie is the heart of the disaster , and i'd be inclined to blame screenwriter thomas ropelewski ( more on his faults to come ) if not for the screen performance tragedy that is madonna . these days , it's impossible to notice anything but that deliberate , affected speech pattern of hers . abbie does some pretty unsympathetic things over the course of the film , so it's crucial that she be played with some energy and charm . it's a performance so leaden it drags every single thing about the next best thing down along with it . with such a horrendous casting mistake at the heart of the next best thing , sapping it of any possible resonance , it's easy to tune out and spend great heaping chunks of the film mulling over its other faults . like , did ropelewski think there was a rule that any film featuring a gay character must have an aids-related sub-plot , no matter how irrelevant to the rest of the story ( hint : it could have been more relevant had there been an attempt to connect the question of surviving partners' rights to gay parents' rights ) ? why did usually reliable cinematographer elliot davis light the whole film as though we were in a cave , except for the morticia adams memorial eye , nose & throat spotlight used on madonna ? and what was with schlesinger's frequent use of fish-eye point-of-view perspectives that merely served to make a serio-comic tale occasionally border on the grotesque ? it's obvious that the next best thing wants to make a statement about inequities in the adjudication of custody matters , and question what it is that makes a parent . the statement and question are both valid , but that's all there is to this clumsy concoction . rupert everett is solid both comedically and dramatically , providing virtually all of the film's worthwhile moments , but he's the only thing about the next best thing that doesn't inspire far more head shaking than righteous indignation . sure , everyone involved was probably telling a story about which they felt deeply , and their hearts were certainly in the right place . when you're making a film , however , heart just isn't always enough . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	in battlefield earth , grown men get to dress up like klingons having bad hair days , while uttering some of the silliest dialog this side of a bad 1950s sci-fi flick . although the film has a few nice , but too dark , special effects , the only reason to see the it is as a guilty pleasure , so you can laugh at john travolta in an embarrassingly bad performance . his character laughs a lot , too - a hearty and silly " ha . ha . ha . one can only hope the book was more intelligent than it is portrayed on the screen . earthlings have been reduced to cavemen , who worship the stars in the heavens as gods . ( you'll be forced to stare at the psychlos' ugly pusses and dirty teeth in endless close-ups until you're ready to surrender . ) and when you end up in hell , it'll be a step up from this planet . " poor earth , which is mainly in ruins , gets dissed a lot in the movie . the cinematography uses various shades of a slimy blue-green . the picture tries hard to look gross and succeeds . just to make sure that no one is surreptitiously having a good time , there are some raw rat eating scenes tossed in to spice up the viewing . the psychlos , who act like imbeciles , think man animals are so stupid that they can't even be taught how to operate simple machinery and are good only for manual labor . try to count the number of films that the movie borrows from liberally . but whereas the originals are engrossing , battlefield earth is long and tedious . as a guilty pleasure , nothing is better than battlefield earth's totally preposterous concluding segment . wow , can those guys ever crack a book . whatever you do , try not to laugh . it may spoil the effect for those around you . they may be buying the story , hook , line and stinker -- i mean sinker . it is rated pg-13 for violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . given the movie's dark intensity , i'd be careful about taking kids under 13 . 
1	a taut suspense yarn in b&w , that plays like noir because of all the eerie shadows on the wall and the conviction for murder of an innocent man . this villain role is out of character for the always sweet ann sothern , but she shows great agility in handling the difficult role . the melodramatic script was often not believable and the action part of the story looked like pretend acting , just like the therapy nancy davis was applying to gigi . but the stars pulled this one together and made the tense story , revolving around the little girl , seem plausible . gigi perreau was marvelous , giving a convincing performance as a little girl who could be both adorable and then almost frightened out of her mind . 
2	few people who have seen the classic 12 angry men from 1957 will ever be able to forget it . the film itself has a history of which only the most avid cinema buffs are aware . the secret is that the 1957 movie is a direct adaptation of a live television production from 1954 . the production won three major emmy awards -- best director for franklin schaffner , best actor for robert cummings , and most of all , best writer for reginald rose . rose's script would be used with minor changes but no substantial improvements in the 1957 movie as well as the 1997 television remake . i went to the museum of television and radio in manhattan to view the original 1954 production . besides the facilities for viewing just about any old television program imaginable , they have several different collections being shown simultaneously on movie sized screens . my favorites of the latter were an anthology of science fiction in television over the past forty years and one featuring three classic alfred hitchcock episodes . but i digress . the plot , which looks simple , becomes anything but as the story unfolds . although the cast is perhaps not quite as strong as in the remakes , it has significant depth . among others , the cast includes robert cummings , franchot tone , edward arnold , paul hartman , john beal , and walter abel . the show starts with a dramatic charge by an excessively somber judge . " i urge you to deliberate earnestly and thoughtfully , " he intones with the low bass voice of a old preacher at a funeral . " you are faced with a grave responsibility . " most of the jurors keep their ties on and their coats buttoned , as was the custom of the time , making the heat even more insufferable . " i've never seen a guiltier man in my life . " some are reasonable but others stick to diatribes . the intelligent script manages to include most types of people with the racist on the jury being the most outlandish . the great testament to the quality of the story is that none of the 12 feel like cliches although many certainly are . the story has a timelessness and an honesty to it that few others can match . robert cummings plays the persistent juror who wants to slow down the process at least enough so that the young kid charged with murder gets a fair hearing in the jury room . since it was live tv one can never be sure why , but he gets his words a bit mixed up at first and almost starts to stutter . it was probably planned , and it is just the kind of realistic event that would happen in such circumstances . cummings gives the best of several outstanding performances . the production is full of theatrics such as the men's almost coming to blows , but it is presented with such honesty that it is easy to forgive its shortcomings . as the people sweat and the street sounds from outside flow into the room , every member of the viewing audience feels like they are on the jury as well . despite what you might believe , early television was generally fairly awful . studio one : twelve angry men runs probably an hour or so without the commercials . it is not rated but would be pg only for the mature themes , and the show would be fine for kids old enough to be interested . i recommend it strongly if you should ever be presented an opportunity to see it , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	granted , this is the low point of deuce bigalow : male gigolo , but the rest of the crude story isn't much better . needless to say , deuce will shortly destroy the place in a fit of bad slapstick antics . the movie's idea of comedy is to force deuce to cope with the problems of women with a wide variety of handicaps and unusual physical characteristics . funny , huh ? you're not laughing ? neither was i . and did i mention that this scene is repeated a half-dozen times ? so , was it ever funny ? i think i laughed once , but , for the life of me , i can't remember why . it is rated r for sexual situations , crude sexual humor , nudity and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
1	the first thing to notice about john duigan's lawn dogs is the astounding performance of newcomer mischa barton , who plays devon , the 10-year old protagonist . barton is a natural actress , and manages to convey the perfect blend of maturity and innocence necessary for us to accept her character as something more vital than the construct of an uneven plot . theirs is basically a friendship between outsiders , and , although there is an undeniable sexual undercurrent inherent in their interaction , it's kept subtle , and duigan never exploits it . this is no lolita ; these two have a great deal in common on an emotional level , but neither is interested in entering into a physical relationship . sadly , barton's standout performance and the core relationship are really the only two worthwhile aspects of lawn dogs , a film that never quite gels into a satisfying whole . the problem is twofold . the plot is unwieldy and peppered with familiar , melodramatic moments . worse , the supporting characters are all pure caricatures . the plentiful attempts at satirizing the suburban lifestyle consistently strike a wrong note , often seeming cruel , uncomfortable , or out-of-synch . all other elements of the film are disappointingly banal . sitting through lawn dogs is like watching two entwined movies of vastly different quality . one is a well-written , atypical buddy story . the film expends enough effort on the latter to mute the impact of the former , and the climactic sequence is an exercise in violent , predictable melodrama . while there are things to appreciate in lawn dogs , especially barton's performance , the film as a whole left me strangely unfulfilled . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	he speaks in a hesitatingly slow , thick southern drawl , and is a very modest , inward man . his life is a difficult one , where his level of discomfort is beyond reasonable expectations . but he is not dull . all the film's energy goes into ian holm's stellar performance . this is a wonderful screen adaption , as scripted by howard a . rodman , who caught the nostalgic and generous mood of greenwich village of the 1940s . ian holm's performance is brilliant and sparkling , one of his best in his long and distinguished career . this cautionary story pictures a city that has changed so much from joe gould's time , that a talented eccentric nowadays should expect to receive no help from a city that is becoming less interested in helping its weirdo artists or its mentally ill , instead turning its attention to more mundane concerns . 
2	the studio , expecting a solid b movie did not know what to do with the print wells gave them . essentially a b movie with an avant-garde look , the film , which was re-edited by the studio , got mixed reviews when it was released . whether touch of evil is a masterpiece as many have called it or just an intriguing , confusing and avant-garde b movie is the question . probably the movie's fans will be pleased with the new version , but those less attached to the original film may find the redo an interesting movie albeit far from a great one . the major change to the picture occurs during the long opening sequence of a moving car with a bomb in the trunk , which is the one of most important scenes in the move . in the original release the studio obscured the images by overlaying them with the opening credits and changing the natural street sounds wells wanted to a heavy henry mancini score . wells's vision for the opening is superior , this much is certain . wells not only directed the film , he also completely rewrote paul monash's original script , and he chose himself to star in the movie opposite charlton heston , who had just finished his successful role in the ten commandments . his sweaty face chomps so hard at his cigar that he almost pulverizes it , and his rumpled clothes look like he's been wearing them for weeks . the audience can almost smell him coming . the script revels in ambiguities and oblique sexual references . trying constantly to be more than just your average b movie , it throws in bits of everything from westerns to shakespeare . filmed in black and white with heavy use of shadows to denote the omnipresence of evil , the movie has a look popular in 1950's saturday matinee double features . the difference is that touch of evil has a stellar cast and a deliciously oblique script . " what does it matter what you say about people ? " she was speaking of wells's character , but the quote would be even more appropriately spoken of wells himself . his brilliance shows in his greater works as well as his more modest ones . were the reviewers at the time of its initial release wrong ? or was this really an unrecognized masterpiece ? you can be your own judge . as for me , it wasn't even the best movie i saw this week . still , a wells movie is always something well worth savoring . it is not rated but probably would be pg-13 for adult themes and violence and would be fine for kids around 12 and up . 
2	bruce willis , who costars with osment , delivers one of the strongest performances of his career and still manages to be upstaged by the talented youngster . " the most amazing child actor i've ever seen " is how willis refers to osment in the film's press notes . " i rank this kid up there with the best adult actors i've worked with over the years . " after seeing the child's brilliant work in this remarkable film , willis's observations are easy to agree with . the sixth sense , written and directed with subtly and grace by m . night shyamalan , doesn't fit neatly into any genre , no matter what the trailers might lead you to believe . perhaps the best way to define it is to say what it isn't . it's not a horror movie , although there are some frightening images . the script is too interior and intellectual to be considered a traditional thriller , but you will find yourself on the edge of your seat . the movie isn't a comedy even though there are plenty of appreciated opportunities for laughter to break the film's intensity . finally , it isn't a romance , but love is a major theme . so what is it ? any category you put it in would be needlessly limiting and inappropriate . suffice it to say that it's a film that will surprise and mesmerize you . it's the sort of film that's liable to elicit a " wow " at the conclusion . this review will give only the briefest of outline to the story , less than the trailers provide , so that there is no fear of revealing any of the fascinating details of the plot . " you're nice , but you can't help me , " cole tells malcolm . in his tenderest performance ever , willis shows his empathy for the boy's troubles . but is there any truth in this ? tak fujimoto's dark , intense cinematography reflects the somber tone of the two protagonists' troubles . the complex and rewarding script blends in a strong life-affirming aspect to the melancholy story . the touching film moves with great delicacy as it reveals its truths . the cinematic equivalent of a page-turner , the movie keeps your eyes glued to the screen . the writer respects the intelligence of the audience , saving the answers to many of the key questions that the story poses for as long as possible . as the ending credits roll , you'll be busy discussing the film with everyone around you . one subject of the conversation will undoubtedly be that you want to see it again . it's that good and that intriguing . the sixth sense runs 1 : 54 . it is rated pg-13 for intense thematic material and violent images and would be fine for teenagers . an r rating might have been more appropriate . 
0	i suppose one cannot dismiss " star search " as an utter vacuum in the history of entertainment if it gave us sinbad . you may or may not recall that the comedian formerly known as david adkins got his big break by winning the comedy competition of the now-defunct talent contest a decade or so ago , and that's almost enough to make up for giving us carrot top . it's hard to explain my inordinate fondness for sinbad , except to note that i also loved bill cosby's stand-up , and i think of sinbad as cosby's natural successor in the same way eddie murphy can be considered richard pryor's . sinbad works clean _and_ funny , and he strikes me as an incredibly decent person besides . i have always believed that some day he would justify my faith by making a great film comedy . but first kid is not it . and it's not just a formula film , it's a formula film aimed at kids , which means that clever banter is never used to establish the antagonism where a pratfall , a bare backside or plenty of messy food can be used in its place . mind you , the film seemed to be perfectly hilarious to the kids in the audience , although i can't for the life of me understand why a film aimed at 12-year-olds included a cameo by sonny bono . still , as grossly predictable as first kid is , i still found myself smiling a lot at sinbad . i think he is the perfect star for a children's film , because there is something wonderfully warm and open about his screen persona . despite standing 6'5 " , sinbad is more of an over-sized teddy bear than an intimidating physical presence , and every time he grins , it seems completely genuine . he has precious little to work with in first kid -- a bland mentor ( robert guillaume ) , an even blander president ( james naughton ) -- but the sheer force of his good nature keeps you hoping something will come along and be deserving . unfortunately , he is stuck playing with brock pierce , who is pleasant enough as the timid , self-conscious luke but doesn't have the spark to convince us he could be obnoxious enough to irritate anyone . i might not have had a real problem with first kid if screenwriter tim kelleher and director david mickey evans had done what it appeared they were initially intending to do , which is to tell a simple , harmless , goofy buddy story with lots of physical comedy for kids . however , they make a big mistake by turning the conclusion into a suspense drama involving an attempted kidnapping of luke ( extra credit points in cinematic obviousness 101 if you can guess the kidnapper just from my review ) . they seem to feel that it is necessary to show simms as a good agent as well as a good guy , and that is fine , but the gunplay which ensues is a bit too serious , making the last fifteen minutes somewhat inappropriate for young children . far better to give sinbad the opportunity to take over the film , since he was clearly the best thing they had going for them . first kid is not an unpleasant film , it's just a blatantly unnecessary one . ed mcmahon would not approve . 
1	screenplay : steve martin . director : gillies mackinnon . his script for roxanne retained only the most basic plot elements , while ditching the tragedy . with a simple twist of fate , he has been perhaps too faithful , letting a deliberate exposition and somber tone dull a potentially appealing redemption tale . there is something jarring about watching a film constructed like a 19th century novel set in the present day . a simple twist of fate takes its own sweet time establishing its plot and characters , and for the first half hour it seems muted to the point of inaudibility , and very dark in its tone . but curiously , the one thing missing from this overlong first act is any sense of who michael mccann really is . he is viewed mostly through the reactions of townspeople , or filmed in shadow hoarding his precious gold coins . i felt that i knew more about characters like newland's wayward brother ( stephen baldwin ) than the man whose transformation is to provide the centerpiece for the film . to be fair to steve martin the screenwriter , steve martin the actor may not have been the best choice for this role . for the past couple of years , in such films as leap of faith , martin has been trying to establish himself as a legitimate dramatic actor , and while he is always an appealing presence , he just doesn't look comfortable in scenes which require serious emotion . his standard " repressed emotion " take is on frequent display in a simple twist of fate , and it usually just makes him look slightly constipated . at those moments , i just couldn't lose myself in the pre-mathilda mccann . there is much more to enjoy in the second act of simple twist . martin is very good as the nervous novice father , and his scenes with the various child actors playing mathilda are generally quite charming . also appealing are the performances of catherine o'hara as a quirky antique shop owner who befriends mccann ( and , in a pleasant surprise , * doesn't * become his romantic interest ) , and gabriel byrne , slipping in and out of a virginia accent but providing some nice shading for a part that could have been a stock villain . unfortunately , the conclusion of a simple twist of fate becomes a predictable and overlong custody battle , complete with courtroom scenes and a hissable lawyer . the more melodramatic a simple twist of fate became--and ironically , the more like its source material-- the less effective it was as a film . as nicely as the bonding between father and daughter was portrayed , it couldn't compensate for the plodding story on either end of it . 
2	as an account of growing up in a family constantly on the verge of blowing apart , imaginary crimes is often touching , and occasionally poignant . this is sonya's story , not ray's or greta's , so ultimately the viewer's emotional response is determined by the effectiveness of drazan's dramatization of the young woman's turmoil . for the most part , he is successful in toning down the melodramatic elements in favor of a more honest approach . oddly , some of the earlier sequences might have been enhanced by the use of a little * more * skillfully-applied melodrama . until the flashback of valery's death thirty minutes into the film , it's difficult to connect emotionally with any of the characters . that's a rather long time for an audience to be held aloof , regardless of the eventual payoff's impact . the similarities with this boy's life don't end with common themes . harvey keitel's performance echoes that of robert de niro in the earlier film . keitel occasionally seems trapped by the restraint demanded by this role , which makes for a few awkward moments . with an unforced portrayal that makes use of her expressive eyes , fairuza balk ( of gas food lodging ) is the real star of imaginary crimes . balk accurately and believably conveys the turmoil caused by this uncertainty . those finding the recent wave of coming-of-age stories to their taste will probably appreciate what this movie has to offer . imaginary crimes is a difficult film to connect with , but once the connection is made , it rewards with an unexpectedly rich emotional texture . 
2	like the energizer bunny , mel gibson , as usual , gets beaten to a pulp , but , with blood flowing everywhere , he just keeps on going and going in payback , a smart new thriller by director brian helgeland , the screenwriter for l . a . confidential . porter will surprise you with unexpected actions and reactions , but this time mel never overacts or tries to be too cute as he frequently does in his lethal weapon series . with this restraint comes the most empathetic acting he has done since ransom . " good guys are nice , " porter tells us in a raspy voice-over . " you always have to have someone to take advantage of . cinematographer ericson core provides the film's stunning look . core , whose work was one of the few good parts of the film 187 from two years ago , gives the images a grimy , seedy look . the colors have been washed out so that only the blues remain . the browns and flesh tones appear to have been added back in , and shadows bathe every scene . chris boardman's moody , mysterious music adds to the movie's heavy atmospherics . the secret of the movie is the depth of the supporting cast , and the way the intelligent script is able to make each stand out . but don't cross them , or they will shoot you -- or worse . like a roller coaster , in which the riders delight in screaming down every precipitous fall , payback loves to make the audience grimace . porter will get or give a dose of instant pain as the audience collectively cries out and then falls silent waiting in silent , subconscious anticipation for the next big drop -- exhausting but fun . it is rated r for strong violence , profanity , drug use and sexuality and would be fine for older teenagers . 
1	there was no visible difference between the characterization of a sleek photography magazine , frame , that is the subject of the film , and the film itself , with all its glib characters provoking an air of chic fashion , all in the pretense of art . it is a performance that makes the film seem greater than how it really is . the complications that arise out of this new relationship is the springboard for the plot . the two of them seem to have a chemistry together and their kissing scenes did give us a needed look into their passions , with the more controlling lucy being in charge of things and instigating the relationship to be more sexual . she has most of the lines in the film that pack a wallop . the combo of the three women with different intentions and personalities , plays well , as the acting here is really fine . all the actors were properly ensconced in their roles and supported each other very well . eventually the film , after being carried along by sheedy's intense performance , dies an ungraceful death from too much of its slickness ; it ran out of things to resolve other than by means of contrivance , and it was highly questionable that the " art " seen was really worthy of being deemed as something special . we just lost interest in the characters , the film began to look like a commercial for a magazine that wouldn't stop and get to the main article . so what could have been cutting edge dramatics , if the lesbian romance was followed through further , turns out to be a film not about art , but more of a soap opera story , about how three women , at different stages of their life , get together and separate . all the pain that is there , is finally settled in the usual way sitcoms settle problems they don't want to handle any more . which left the film only somewhat satisfying ; it did create a proper atmosphere for us to view these lost characters , and it did have something to say about how their lives are being emotionally torn apart . but we only get a voyeurs look at them , and that is not enough of a look for us to say that we penetrated into their world of mind-games and drug induced delusions and need for each other . the film just looked too much like the slick magazine it presented in the film ; that it wanted to say something more about syd's sudden sexual reversal and about the despair in lucy's life , but it just couldn't get it out what it wanted to say , which is why the film became a let down . its style was , perhaps , too beautiful for its own good . it would have been wiser to develop more depth for the main characters and show them to be more than the superficial beings they seemed to be on screen . being a talented photographer is not necessarily being a fully developed person , as evidenced by lucy's dissolute lifestyle and poor decision making . 
2	a loose collection of slow and pretentious stories , the film has such flowery dialog that it can be laughably silly . but this haunting series of tales about unsuccessful searches for love has a remarkable visual poetry that draws in the viewer . with frequent full-frontal nudity , the film is also unabashedly sensual , even if the lovers are uniformly unhappy . the stories are glued together with the character of a director , played by john malkovich , who appears to be in a post-film funk after wrapping up his last movie . the director muses on the importance of that exact number . it's a film like that . these actors are given the toughest lines to say with conviction . ( " i am enslaved by your silence , " silvano tells carmen . so much for that story . this strangely intriguing film is set in a cold , bleak , off-season europe , full of gloomy gray skies , heavy fog , rain and thunder . a slightly erotic and decidedly offbeat movie , beyond the clouds has a strong attraction that is hard to put into words . a frustrating film , it is simultaneously bizarrely fascinating and soporifically unsatisfying . the film is in english , italian and french , with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be at least an r for nudity , sex and language . it would be acceptable for mature high school students . 
0	the horseman on the roof ( le hussard sur le toit ) is an exercise in style . secondarily , it is both a romance and a horror show . equally well , it is macabre since it has more needlessly gruesome dead bodies than any morgue . in close-ups the characters vomit a lot , usually all over themselves , and after the hundredth corpse , you may feel like throwing up as well . let me warn the squeamish again that if you go to this show , you will see scores and scores of dead bodies . i am not talking about removed shots from fifty feet away . the cinematography by thierry arbogast is full of steel blues and grays . if you are a fan of swashbuckling sort of tales , you may like the hectic pace and all of the little adventures the director puts his stars through . today , you would have been proud of me . " she would not be so proud of his acting which is non-existent . olivier martinez is a man handsome enough to be a model , but i saw no evidence of any acting talent . he has a striking pretty brown tabby cat who does know how to act . i liked the cat better than any of the actors or actresses in the film . juliette binoche can be a wonderful actress , see for example , damage , three colors : blue , and the unbearable lightness of being among others . here , she gets poor guidance from the director i guess because she shows little emotion and spends most of her time in vacuous smiles . for that matter , neither are the action sequences . overall , the script ( jean-claude carriere , nina companeez and jean-paul rappeneau based on the novel by jean giono ) is a mess . confusion is this show's middle name . to make it worse , everyone in the picture moves with such a high nervous energy that it leaves you exhausted . the horseman on the roof runs way too long at 2 : 10 . i saw all of it , but it is so repetitious that if i had left after only thirty minutes , i would not have missed anything . the picture is in french with english subtitles . the film is rated r . there is brief nudity , no sex , but lots of extremely horrific pictures of people dead or dying . this is a very intense show that is only for people with strong stomachs . if teenagers want to see it , make sure they can handle the gore . i liked the pretty parts of the picture , but otherwise it left me cold so i can not recommend it and can only give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the most popular domestic film in australia when it was released in 1997 , the movie has finally reached the american shores with a nationwide release . australian comedy tends to be full of good natured , self-deprecating humor , and the castle is firmly in that genre . a broad parody without a pretentious bone in its body , the movie stays on target from beginning to end . their jokes aren't anywhere near earth-shakingly funny , but few miss their mark . the show is almost guaranteed to keep a smile on your face ( and a sappy song in your heart . ) so what , other than his family , is the source of darryl's happiness ? first , it is " worth almost as much as he paid for it . " their house , being right next to the airport runway , could not be more convenient for traveling -- not that they've ever even left the county . when there's ice cream for dessert , he's sure she did something special to make it taste so wonderful . these many mealtime sequences work so well because the people are so genuine that the movie plays like a quirky documentary with shades of the funniest documentary in years , hands on a hardbody they're all good , grown kids , even wayne . the last act takes some predicable twists before arriving at its mandatory happy ending . the fast-paced story has enough sweet humor to keep our interest , and the filmmaker makes sure to end the picture quickly so there is no danger of its overstaying its welcome . this light-hearted entertainment is the type of movie that you can call cute without any tinge of sarcasm . if you're in the mood for cute , then this is your movie . it is rated r for some profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	screenplay : kevin wade and chris conrad . director : ivan reitman . in 1988 , arnold schwarzenegger , danny devito and ivan reitman set the standard for " high concept " with their comic vehicle twins . in hollywood pitch-meeting parlance , it could be reduced to five words-- " schwarzenegger and devito are twins " --and proved that sometimes a simple idea and the right talent could add up to $100 million even with a paper-thin script . and in a limited sense , it works . junior is so simple and gently directed that the warm performances of emma thompson and schwarzenegger manage to struggle through a script that always goes for the easy gag , and even then can't make most of them particularly funny . the impregnation is a success , but of course complications ensue . this is not hollywood's first attempt at a pregnant man story , and the disastrous first attempt ( the joan rivers-directed billy crystal vehicle rabbit test ) would not seem to inspire eagerness to give the premise another try . the joke in junior , of course , isn't just that a man is pregnant ; it's that the man in question is arnold schwarzenegger . schwarzenegger's choices of roles in the last several years have demonstrated a mastery of his own image , as he alternates action blockbusters with against-type comedies , and he has proved remarkably adept at both . as limited as his acting skills may be , he is usually very likable , and junior is no exception . those familiar with thompson only from her branagh/shakespeare and merchant/ivory efforts will be quite pleasantly surprised by her goofy performance in junior . her dianna , a clumsy and socially inept scientist , is the perfect match for schwarzenegger's hesse , and thompson's delightful moments of physical comedy make her scenes with arnold very appealing . that's really what junior has going for it : appealing performers at their most appealing . most of the jokes are based on the obvious incongruities of schwarzenegger in the family way--his appearance in a prosthetic belly ; his emotional response to a sappy kodak commercial ; his delivery of lines like , " my nipples are very sensitive . " and it's only because schwarzenegger seems to be having so much fun that any of it works . other bits , including the obligatory scene of a baby with urine streaming down its leg , are too trite for any amount of good will to make them work . the script , credited to kevin wade and chris conrad , is full of missed opportunities and silliness instead of any real inventiveness . frank langella , who was so good in the reitman-directed dave last year , is woefully underused as the obligatory villain , and gets the most obvious comeuppance available . perhaps that's the word that defines junior best : obvious . this is terrain we've all seen many , many times before . but the cast of junior is so engaging that it feels like we're seeing that terrain in a very comfortable car , in the company of old friends . 
1	director : chris columbus . mpaa rating : pg ( profanity , adult themes ) running time : 132 minutes . and so robin williams' career has come full circle . well , you get the idea . i'm sure williams would not see things that way . he would describe a robust character arc , in which andrew comes to exhibit creativity and feeling , and begins a life-long quest to become more human . this incarnation , however , is directed by chris columbus , whose contributions to deep-thinking western cinema include home alone , home alone 2 and nine months . he's an unapologetic crowd-pleaser as a director , but a crowd-pleaser in the most irritating of ways . his is a style that favors low-brow gags and gee-whiz pacing , then feigns depth by wrapping things up with sentimental message-mongering ( and , in this particular case , three -- count them , _three_ -- death bed scenes ) . bicentennial man doesn't even manage the gee-whiz pacing ; after a moderately promising start , the film drifts into two hours of andrew growing ever more pensive about his place in the world . such pensiveness is likely meant to allow robin williams an uplifting acting showcase ( at least once andrew sheds his metal casing for williams' human face ) . williams has seemed inordinately fond of uplifting acting showcases lately , eschewing straight-ahead comedy for roles like patch adams , what dreams may come and jakob the liar . unfortunately , he's not doing himself any favors in his choices of material , heading for parts that allow him to do plenty of emoting between gags . there's no gravity to williams' performance as andrew , none of the conflicted pain of a being coming to terms with its own consciousness and its isolation in the world . that's because he's being directed by chris columbus , for whom gravity is just the thing that keeps his films from floating away entirely . when bicentennial man sticks to light comedy , it's not half bad . when it takes its epic scope too seriously , it's more than half bad . bicentennial man does boast solid work from its supporting cast of davidtz , neill and particularly platt ( for my money , now the most reliable comic actor in film ) . the technical credits are top-notch , with one wild scene in which platt molds artificial flesh into williams' face . there's also plenty of opportunity to watch the film grow ponderous in the long stretches between laughs , and to consider how stale robin williams' once-promising career has become . bicentennial man's few simple pleasures can't make up for its shallow philosophizing -- or the sense that , for robin williams , everything old is nanoo again . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	a visually stunning serial killer film , with mind-bending special effects , computer imaging , special f/x , and gorgeous costumes , as directed by commercial and music-video director tarsem singh , in his debut feature film . the cinematic beauty and originality of this pioneering visual film hides the banality of the story and the weak storytelling , as the director doesn't know quite what to do with the film after setting it up with set designs that are simply breathtaking . he doesn't know how to close the story or how to keep it suspenseful . this is an arty serial killer film that is not necessarily an art nor is it a mainstream film , it's an in-betweener , where what is seen is more than what there is , which leaves a terrible void when trying to get past the colorful , disturbing , and enjoyable display of images , and then deciphering the content . but the visuals are so stimulating , that they almost cover up all the film's loose ends . the visuals inside the mind are spectacular images of lunacy and are laced with compelling and original art designs , all of the images are beautifully colored . in the child's head , she is dressed as a princess in a white feathered gown , standing on glistening island sand with a crystal clear sky invading the senses with an array of brightness , that could be as inviting as a tourist commercial for travellers , except there is a bizarre quality about these images that is more than an eyeful for an ad . most of the film , is spent taking a mind trip with catherine as she explores the subconscious of both this child and of a serial killer , while the chase of the killer is not particularly interesting , playing a secondary role to the cinematography of the mind . the main focus of the film is the visual journey itself , therefore the actors are mostly asked to blend in and not steal the scenery from the visuals . it is something they successfully do . jennifer lopez is surprisingly credible as a therapist and the one the film hinges on to take us on this mind trip , vince vaughn plays his low-key role in an expressively adequate manner , and vincent d'onofrio elicits some sympathy for being a victim of child abuse while also seen as an over-the-top psycho , someone who is capable of torturing women for no logical reasons . but one is always reminded that the actors are not as important as the cinematography is , as the film always returns to the visualizations of the mind to keep the intensity going . the film had enough visual material to keep you looking at it and wondering what does it all mean since it wasn't a very frightening serial killer picture , and its mind explorations did not take us down some unmarked jungian trail . it ends up by having the hero rescue the heroine in the nick of time , allowing the film to wend its way back into the conventional way serial killer films usually conclude . perhaps , with a more razor-sharp story and requiring more from the capable cast , the film could have lived up to its visualizations and have been a masterpiece , instead of settling for being an engrossing film that is very entertaining , a film that certainly sets a new high standard for photography . 
2	starring : hugo dube , luc picard , pierre rivard , denis trudel , serge houde director : pierre falardeau producers : bernadette payeur and marc daigle screenplay : pierre falardeau cinematography : alain dostie music : richard gregoire no u . s . distributor ; released in canada by c/fp distributors in french with subtitles as is inevitable for any sympathetic portrayal of terrorists , october has stirred the cauldron of controversy . in canada , the movie has been called everything from an amazing portrait of the loss of innocence to blatant flq propaganda . in reality , it's some of both . at times , the film maker's political agenda interferes with his story , especially during the first half , when the characters are wont to spout flq slogans ( which sound exactly like the kinds of things all terrorist organizations say ) . while it's necessary for the audience to understand why the characters act as they do , falardeau apparently wants to force a sympathy not only with them , but with their movement as well . falardeau eschews simplistic terms like " good , " " evil , " " right , " and " wrong . " motion pictures depicting the terrorist's point-of-view are not especially popular , for obvious reasons . while the director may have played somewhat loose with the facts ( as jim sheridan did in in the name of the father ) , it's difficult to deny the dramatic impact of his finished product . only those blinded by personal involvement in the issue are likely to deny the effectiveness and skill with which october's tragedy is illustrated . 
0	with the mark of true talent , jada pinkett smith , who was eddie murphy's girlfriend in the recent remake of the nutty professor , manages to shine in the otherwise dismal movie woo . with her infectiously happy smile , the beautiful actress has enough spunk and confidence to rise above the material . although not quite enough to make the movie enjoyable , her performance does give some respite to the audience , who has to endure every black and male stereotype in the book . as celestrial , a performer known as girlina overacts like the rest of the supporting cast . mixed with their disparaging remarks on the woman's anatomy , they stick out their tongues to make sexually provocative gestures . as written by david c . johnson and directed by daisy von scherler mayer , the picture , with its heavy slapstick , feels lifted from some raunchy cable sitcom with a heavy laugh track . no gesture is too crude to include and no situation too cliched . " this is funny ; this is funny , " tim tells woo at one point . " this is funny ? " " what does that mean ? " she doesn't know , and neither did the makers of this movie . woo runs just 1 : 25 . it is rated r for profanity and sexual situations and would be fine for older teenagers . 
1	well , as the old cliche puts it , truth is stranger than fiction . except this film tries to fictionalize the truth , changing the story into one of mediocrity with no twists or surprises worth mentioning . what could have given a fresh look at an unusual sport proves instead to be a forgettable movie-going experience . i'm not going to get into all the liberties that cool runnings has taken with olympic history--those are left to some other review of this film--but suffice it to say that little of reality remains . hollywood has changed just about everything except the skeletal facts in order to make the movie more appealing and enjoyable to the average viewer , who would rather see triumph and sentiment instead of a less-palatable genuine account . sports formula pictures have spanned just about every sport but , to the best of my knowledge , this is the first one about bobsledding . in the time-honored tradition of the genre , we are presented with the underdogs as heros , shown a few routine hiccups along their path to the " big event " , then given a resolution designed to get the audience clapping and cheering . often , it's the way these movies are handled that makes them successful , since originality is obviously at a premium . pacing , chemistry among the actors , credibility of dialogue , a catchy score , and likability of the characters gain added importance . cool runnings is marginally successful in all of these areas . there's nothing here to tax the mind , but the goal of feather-light entertainment is certainly met . i have always believed candy to be at his best when he chooses light drama with a comic edge over straight comedy . that describes only the lonely , planes , trains , and automobiles , and just about every other memorable movie he's been in . it also describes cool runnings and , while this motion picture is far from a landmark , few could complain about candy's performance . the other four principals are equally effective , each striving to get the most out of a hackneyed role . all are better-suited to humorous situations than self-contemplation , so it's no surprise that the comedy scenes work much better than the dramatic ones . the action sequences , as the bobsleds whiz along the ice , are ably executed . it's hard to knock a movie as inoffensive as cool runnings , a project that's as enjoyable as it is vacuous . it's a family film that should be approached with appropriate expectations . there's nothing special here , nothing to elevate this picture above the dozens of others like it that are released every year . in many ways , it's well-suited for television--for those who have short attention spans and like to make occasional trips to the kitchen for a bite to eat without fear of missing anything . perhaps that's the best way to watch cool runnings--sprawled out on the couch instead of sitting in a theater seat . after all , in a season when pictures like this flare up then fade away quickly , the wait for video shouldn't be a long one . 
1	screenplay : warren beatty and jeremy pikser . director : warren beatty . naturally , the public responds to this unusual display of candor , and the teller of the truth becomes a sort of folk hero , much to the consternation of corporate america . that's the basic premise of a 1990 comedy called crazy people , in which dudley moore plays an advertising executive who snaps his cap and starts turning out product slogans like " volvo -- they're boxy , but they're good . " crazy people was less than completely successful because it didn't have a shred of story to offer once you got past the admittedly hilarious snippets of truth in advertising . bulworth is less than completely successful because it has _too much_ story , none of it in keeping with the frivolous , politically incorrect tone of its trailers . beatty crafts a solid opening as we see bulworth reduced to tears while watching a videotaped compendium of his television spots bashing affirmative action , preaching family falues and mouthing platitudes about " standing on the doorstep of a new millennium . " it's a dark and provocative tale , one which could easily turn off viewers who come in expecting something completely different . though he deftly inserts most of his social commentary into rap-style lyrics -- somehow a rapped lecture sounds less like a lecture -- it's still an aggressive attack on the powers that be as beatty sees them . add to this a tentative romance between bulworth and a young black woman ( halle berry ) , the intrusion of the hit-man sub-plot and even a bit of fish-out-of-water comedy as bulworth hides out in the 'hood , and you end up with a film that's more jittery than edgy . bulworth keeps lashing out in search of its tone -- one moment goofy and irreverent , the next moment grim and pedantic . there's nothing inherently wrong with a comedy delivering its goods unconventionally , provided the goods are delivered . there are plenty of comic high points in bulworth , including platt's superb performance as bulworth's ever-more-frantic right hand man and the shoot-from-the-hip speeches already showcased in previews . even if you agree with those politics , you may find bulworth leaving a strange and unpleasant aftertaste ; you'll know you've seen an interesting film , but you may feel cheated by the kind of film you got . i suspect viewers will wish they'd seen more of bulworth's comic rantings . perhaps this ad campaign could have used a dose of crazy people's truth in advertising . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	what do you get when you blend grand opera , theater of the absurd and gladiators ? in the only sport with script writers , composers , costume designers and directors , professional wrestling is unabashedly just pure show business . it's a spectacle that p . t . barnum would have loved to own . after the wwf's recent ipo , you can even buy a piece of it yourself . barry w . blaustein's documentary , beyond the mat , takes a loving but honest look behind the curtain to show us how this bizarre piece of entertainment is operated . the " sport " is so popular that the documentary about it is getting released to commercial theaters rather than art houses , something relatively unheard of in the world of docs . it is a dangerous endeavor . the blood you see is real , as the combatants do such things as take metal chairs and pulverize their opponents' heads . the pain is no less intense because it is carefully scripted . from the times of the romans , we know that there has always been a market for watching people being subjected to such incredible abuse . blaustein's documentary is hilarious -- frequently frighteningly funny . most of the stars or would-be stars of the wwf have some schtick in order to stand out . one newcomer has a skill that impresses the ceo of the wwf , which is still a family business even though it's publicly traded . " but , what if you weren't born with the skill of projectile wrestling ? " the film , which is mesmerizing in the first thirty minutes , quickly runs out of ideas . as fascinating as the first part is , the rest of the movie is way too repetitive . some segments have no resonance . we can be sorry for her , but the inclusion of the material just feels awkward . still , the first part of the film is more than worth the price of admission . actually watching 30 minutes of it and then walking out wouldn't be a bad strategy . you would have great fun , and staying will not add much . beyond the mat runs too long at 1 : 42 . it is rated r for strong violence and language and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	mr . holland's opus is the classic fictional story about a teacher who uses rock 'n' roll to teach untalented kids to appreciate music . he uses little witticisms like " there's more to music than notes on a page " and " playing music is supposed to be fun " in attempts to awaken and inspire his stoic students . in a great performance w . h . macy is vice principal gene wolters . the corny but fun script ( patrick duncan ) is peppered with great little one liners . the secondary theme in the show surrounds mr . holland's family . in a scene that will tear your heart out , col throws a temper tantrum at age 6 because he can not communicate with his parents enough even to tell them his most basic needs . hands down , the best actor or actress in the whole movie is jean louisa kelly who has a small but important role as rowena morgan . when she sings or acts she casts a spell on people in the movie and in the audience . a great voice and a mesmerizing smile . i'd love to see her up for an award for supporting actress , but i am sure she will be ignored in favor of olympia dukakis's more traditional performance . i find richard dreyfuss an uneven and hence frustrating actor to watch , but in mr . here dreyfuss is a master at manipulating the audience's emotion for maximum effect , but yet he gives a restrained rendition of the character . mr . holland's opus is sappy and predictable . it uses a lot of stock film footage of the vietnam war to remind the audience of the tragedy of that era . the editor ( trudy ship ) is quite adept at cutting at just at the right moment between tragedy and joy and between the movie and the old film clips of that period . this is definitely a message movie . principle wolters sums it up with , " if i'm forced to choose between music and reading , writing , and long division , i choose long division every time . " this is contrasted with mr . holland's view that " the day they cut the football budget in this state , that will be the end of western civilization as we know it ! " the ending is a full blown tearjerker . at least it ends on a complete high note ( pun intended ) . mr . holland's opus runs an incredibly long 2 : 22 . i think this is completely unnecessary since this is not gandhi , but i must admit it did keep my attention , and i never looked at my watch . the movie is incorrectly rated pg . this is a g movie where i think they said a couple of cuss words just to keep it from getting a g rating . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . there is a key scene where one character kisses another on the cheek . i recommend the movie to you and give this sweet , upbeat tearjerker * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 31 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	so what would cause 2 grown women and about 2 dozen grown men to faint ? lest you faint , let me tell you up-front that the same jackie chan plays them both . jackie chan films are endurable and enjoyable only because of the boyish charm and energetic bravado of chan himself . the scripts for his movies are usually so thin that , without jackie chan , it would be almost ridiculous to contemplate going to see them . twin dragons , originally released in 1992 , has just been re-released theatrically without allowing the film to be screened in advance to film critics . this is probably smart marketing since , among the jackie chan films , this one is probably one of the silliest and lamest . if you have not seen his movies before , you might be inclined to shake your head and walk out during the first 10 minutes of this one , as it's quite ludicrous . leaving would be a mistake , although going in the first place is still questionable . once you're there , stick around because jackie , especially in the film's grand finale , gets to perform one amazing martial arts feat after another . the whole movie is little more than a ruse for jackie to show us his martial arts skills in a comedic setting . in this broad parody , boomer fights not 1 , not 2 , not 3 but 20 men at a time and eventually wins just before he seems certain to be beaten completely to a pulp . although his later films are much better , this one does have its moments . the plot , such as it is , concerns the misadventures of mr . ma in hong kong as he is mistaken for boomer , and vice versa . when one sneezes , so does the other . the movie is way over-the-top slapstick , but for jackie's die-hard fans , no movie of his can be too hokey . for most of us , we'd be better off renting one of his later , more polished movies and passing on this re-release . it is rated pg-13 for comedic violence , sexual situations and profanity and would be fine for kids 10 or 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , found the film confusing , and , although he liked the martial arts , he gave the movie only * 1/2 . his friend steven , age 10 , thought there was a little too much fighting , but liked the comedy enough to give the movie * * 1/2 . his twin , john , thought the movie was really good and worth * * * 1/2 . their friend alan , almost 10 , thought the movie was awesome and was a * * * * motion picture . 
1	romantic comedies are , by nature , never models of originality , so their appeal is usually based on the freshness of the characters , the charm of their interaction , and about a dozen intangibles . threesome has a hook--it pairs two guys and a girl--but that's about all it can claim as far as appeal goes , and it ends up seeming like some sort of bizarre amalgamation of ben stiller's reality bites and truffaut's jules and jim . add a dash of political correctness , a pinch of animal house unruliness , and cook until half-baked . threesome starts out with a familiar premise . about the only thing that threesome does well is to present homosexual relationships with the same degree of sensitivity that it presents heterosexual ones ( and note that this statement makes no claims about the depth of this movie's " sensitivity " ) . while few will consider threesome a landmark in hollywood's recognition of the normality of same-sex relationships , it at least manages to reduce these to a virtual non-issue . unfortunately , other elements of this production are riddled with flaws , not the least of which is a script that veers wildly from silliness to profundity . the film goes nowhere , and it doesn't take long for the viewer to wonder if anything is going to happen . threesome could have been devised as a stage play , with most of its content occurring within the confines of the dorm suite . it also doesn't demand a campus background since , with the exception of a few throw-away scenes , little that happens has anything to do with studying or classes . the characters don't start clicking with each other until well past the film's halfway point , and it takes even longer for the audience to warm to them . perhaps a little more genuine interaction , and a little less reliance on voice-overs and gimmicky scenes of " rock tune bonding " ( designed to sell soundtracks ) would have helped . while the script has its clever moments , these are overbalanced by a combination of painfully trite scenes ( you have a pretty good idea what's going to happen when the three take a picnic near an inviting pond ) and cumbersome dialogue ( " pandora's proverbial box had been opened , but more interestingly i don't think any of us wanted to close it . " ) . the actors supposedly had a great time making this movie . too bad the audience doesn't have the same fun watching them . stephen baldwin has the annoying " party dude " down pat . josh charles manages to bring a little life and charm to his angst-riddled character . this is charles' and baldwin's second film together--they co-starred in 1993's deadly- dull crossing the bridge . finally , lara flynn boyle's performance vacillates between acceptable and awful--a fair description of the overall movie , actually . there are very few romantic comedies that manage to successfully blend their lighthearted elements with intelligent examinations of issues such as the importance of intimacy and the difficulties in discovering one's sexual identity . threesome , by falling into the common trap of mistaking pretentiousness for substance , loses its way early on . 
2	this is a grim morality tale that can't help putting you in someone else's shoes , wondering what you would do if you were in the same situation . instead , he does the most savage thing he could possibly do , he gets igor , who is becoming very squeamish at this point , to help him bury amidou in concrete , even if he is aware that amidou is still barely alive . how cruel can people be to others ! . . . but something has happened to the kid . la promesse has the harsh reality to it that a documentary might have , and considering that the sibling film directors are acclaimed documentary directors for over two decades , it is easy to see that even though this story is fictionalized it , neverthess , is filmed in the manner of the very real experiences that the filmmakers have noted going on in modern europe . the three main characters of the story are cast perfectly . the film could have been done from the father's point of view instead of the son's ; and , even more interestingly , from assita's ( the widow ) way of seeing things , and the film would have still had a tremendous impact . but there is an unmistakable presence she has , that clearly shows the nobility of her character , especially when contrasted with all those around her whose minds are so blemished . roger is one of the slimiest guys you could ever meet , someone who tries to pretend he is good but it so obviously not , that it is written all over him what he really is . there is room for us to see in him what makes him act the way he does , that he is not that far removed from the consciousness' of the ordinary man in the street , except for his utter lack of decorum and any sort of social conscience . from his point of view , we could see that he is only looking out for number one , thinking , that if he doesn't , who else will . but they can't see anything wrong . this powerful tale is unflinchingly honest and moving . it casts a dark shadow over a civilized country's technological prowess in the world , and questions its humanity and moral perspectives . it does so in a most tangible way , in a way that should be a disturbing reminder of how complex the problem of immigration is , in a film that is piercingly on target as a challenge for the european countrys to keep their " promise " to the immigrants and to see how corrupt their system is and how it doesn't really stop these powerless people from being exploited . 
1	undoubtedly impressed by the long-term , consistent profitability of paramount's star trek movies ( the ninth of which will be released this year ) , new line has decided to resurrect another late-'60s science fiction television enterprise , lost in space . star trek was a relatively serious , socially-conscious series while lost in space became infected with what i'll call the " batman sickness , " and , over the course of its four-year run , devolved from a semi-straight program into pure camp . much of that silliness has been removed for this big-budget , big-screen effort . fans of the original lost in space will likely not be displeased by the direction this movie takes . unfortunately , there's not much to supplement all the eye-popping visuals . the story is unfocused and the character development is virtually nonexistent . one of the problems is that lost in space uses more than 30 minutes setting up the plot , and it's not a particularly interesting half-hour . ( if a strong box office response warrants future installments , at least we will have gotten over this tedious hurdle . ) the set design in lost in space is impressive . the interior of the space ship is suitably futuristic-looking , while the earth-based scenes , with their visually-stunning backdrops , recall last year's the fifth element . most of the model sequences are equally flawless , but the computer-generated spider-like aliens have the same flaw exhibited by similar creatures in starship troopers ? they look fake . too bad some of the effects money wasn't spent on the script . lost in space is infected with a meandering storyline and lifeless protagonists . without a clear narrative drive , there doesn't seem to be much of a point to the whole endeavor . the desire to get home doesn't generate the level of urgency one might reasonably expect , and the movie ends up feeling like a few episodes of star trek : voyager strung together . there isn't a clear villain , either , since dr . smith is more of an anti-hero than anything else ? his motivation is self-interest , not malice . smith becomes a fascinating blend of charisma and delicious nastiness . beyond oldman , however , the cast is disappointingly bland . heather graham , who was wonderful as rollergirl in boogie nights , fails to do anything interesting with judy . chabert especially shows spunk , but she has the least screen time of the major players . incidentally , it could be argued that it wouldn't have mattered if everyone in the cast had been in peak acting form , since the script delivers the kind of two-dimensional characters involved in shallow relationships that even top-notch performances couldn't do much with . lost in space features a few action sequences that generate adrenaline jolts , but this is not an edge-of-the-seat motion picture . this may add to the film's attraction in some quarters , but not as far as i'm concerned . i wanted a little more energy and a story that went somewhere . as a result , while i can offer a mild endorsement of lost in space as a comic book come to life , it's too weak a film for me to stamp with an unqualified recommendation . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
0	cast : kevin zegers , wendy makkena , michael jeter , bill cobbs , eric christmas director : charles martin smith producers : robert vince and william vince screenplay : aaron mendelson , paul tamasy cinematography : mike southon music : braham wenger u . s . distributor : walt disney pictures when you consider motion picture concepts that never should make it past the planning stage , a dog playing basketball has to be near the top of the list ( alongside a remake of casablanca and a big-screen version of leave it to beaver ) . nevertheless , because this is disney , a company that's never met a dumb animal movie premise it didn't like , air bud not only survived development hell , but emerged to plague the late summer box office . someone should consider a law banning disney from making sports- related movies . i still shudder every time i think of their angels in the outfield remake . the mighty ducks movies are the worst examples of crass commercialization . somewhere along the way , disney confused " family entertainment " with " mindless stupidity . " air bud starts out like a severely watered-down version of the recent ( and infinitely better ) shiloh . in actuality , the first hour of air bud is watchable , since all it's doing is recycling diluted elements from shiloh and hoosiers . does snively get what he deserves ? does anyone not know the answers to these questions ? early during the end credits , air bud makes note of the fact that " no special visual effects were used in the filming of the basketball sequences . " that's fine , but , to involve me in a movie , something a little more impressive is required than a dog that can bounce a ball off its nose . there is no attempt to fashion anything more ambitious or interesting than an obligatory storyline around this circus act . and director charles martin smith makes some ill-advised choices in developing air bud's tone . for the most part , the movie is presented as a simplistic melodrama that takes itself far too seriously ( with occasional , unfunny instances of slapstick comedy thrown in at odd moments ) . a movie featuring a basketball playing dog should probably use a somewhat less earnest approach to its subject matter . in the acting department , the weakest performer is the human lead , kevin zegers . zegers is adequate at best , but , at a time when there are an increasing number of superlative adolescent actors , that's not good enough . in zegers' defense , however , it should be noted that it's difficult to give an effective performance while constantly being upstaged by a dog . meanwhile , michael jeter is irritating as snively -- watching his scenes is akin to enduring someone scraping their fingernails across a blackboard . the screenplay is credited to aaron mendelson and paul tamasy , and it's astonishing that the attention of two writers was needed to fill in the blanks of this by-the-numbers script . once upon a time , i emerged from movies like this thinking that i could easily pen something with more originality and intelligence . what i eventually realized , however , was that those qualities are not what studios like disney are looking for in their family fare . they want familiarity and banality , and air bud wears both of those characteristics with the comfort and fit of a second skin . 
0	okay , you are a producer . you still have money left , so you get yourself some stars . you get joanna whalley-kilmer , who must have the most beautiful face of any actress alive , from scandal , peter gallagher , who excels at playing hunks with little upstairs , from sex , lies , and videotape , and jamie lee curtis , who always looks good except in this movie , from a zillion flicks . darn , you are now just about broke . oh well , anyone can direct a show with these stars and a cinematographer who could teach something to monet about lighting effects . you start the shooting . ops , you forgot to get a scriptwriter . you read what he has written . it is pretty boring , but you do not worry because the picture will be beautiful , and you have these gorgeous stars too . on second thought , you better ask for a rewrite . tell him to put something really scary in it . he figures that hurting small children is a classic scare tactic so why not hurt three of them and maybe even kill a few or maybe not . at any rate , that'll sure make the audience take note if it doesn't gross 'em out . again , you start to shoot but realize that you have forgotten to cast the roles of the three children . the studio takes one look at your results and puts it on the shelf for a year , see copyright date in the credits , figuring they have a genuine turkey on their hands . oh well , maybe one of the stars will get arrested or die or something to get some publicity , but no such luck . it would probably be acceptable for teenagers . see this movie if you want to study cinematography or sets or to stare at whalley-kilmer's face ; otherwise , skip it and see just about anything else . for the above three items , i generously award it a single * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	a gritty , realistic look at life in the black ghetto . the film is flawed by the obviousness of the situation it shows , yet despite these flaws there is a power in seeing how real these people are . there was no new ground broken , but it did hit a nerve as to what life in a housing project looks like . the film has a powerful opening , which sets the stage for its tragic tale . the film works because it had an honest energy to it , though when it tries to say something meaningful it feels like so much jive . the triteness and predictability of the story prevents the film from traveling too far from the reality of the housing projects the filmmaker knows . the film can't penetrate any further than some surface responses . it's a cautionary inner-city film that should well serve the youthful urban audience that will be most attracted to its story and should relate to them better than it would to a wide audience . 
0	his auteur signature is to create shocking scenes and characters who will try to freak the audience out . this in-your-face film is about attitude . i can't say that i enjoyed it , or found it interesting , but i can say that i found it different . . . and , it didn't box me in as to how i was to view the characters , letting me make up my own mind as to how i wanted to feel about them . yet korine didn't seem to trust all this poetry he was spreading about and needs to end the film in a conventional way , with a dramatic scene regarding the pregnancy of chloe sevigny . korine shot it on digital video and transferred it to film according to the rules of dogma 95 . the film is an anti-narrative and linear work . he is prone to babbling , drooling , and acting outrageous in a harmless way . a host of characters infiltrate the film for some quick laughs , but , as odd as they were , they seemed like the type of people the family members would be acquainted with , so the scenes with them didn't appear to be as much a freak show as it was a way to make the film entertaining . but the problem was , they didn't go with the flow of the film , as their eccentric behavior seemed forced . in the film's most dramatic moment , towards the end of the movie , pearl trips while at an ice rink and has a miscarriage . i appreciate the effort for originality attempted here , especially with the abundance of formula mainstream and indie films pushed at the public , but i would like to see something more intellectually demanding than just a rant against conventional filmmaking . the filmmaking skills are there , but as of yet , i don't see the 25-year-old director moving too far from the childish shock scenes he threw at the audience for his first film . i'm sure the director meant well by this characterization and that is not where i have difficulty with this film , my difficulty is that the novelty of hearing the incomprehensible chatter of julien soon wore off and the film seemed to grow vacuous and became more a technical film addressing how korine can fool those dogma 95 people by putting in shots with artificial light , which he did numerous times , by breaking the rules he promised to fulfill when getting his dogma 95 certificate , then it was a film about ideas . i would much rather he had made a more substantial film rather than making another anti-intellectual indie film , mainly showing off his superior knowledge of digital video techniques . . . but offering no real insights into the mentally unbalanced characters deeper than what is seen on the surface . there is still too much skateboarder braggadocio in him and not enough filmmaker . . . but the future holds a lot of promise for this talented filmmaker . 
1	stanley tucci should stick to acting . although admittedly not as bad or as ambitious as his last movie , the audacious failure called the impostors , this latest movie of tucci's hasn't much to recommend it other than its period sets . there is a sterling supporting cast ( patricia clarkson , hope davis , steve martin and susan sarandon ) , but they are so underutilized that they hardly count . imagine arranging for steve martin to be in your movie and then giving him a throwaway part . what a waste . ian holm , who looks like robinson crusoe in a goodwill suit , overacts with a vengeance . i'm joe gould ! " holm's performance , although cute at first , quickly becomes repetitive and irritating . with each successive picture , tucci increasingly encourages his actors to overdo it and aims too often for camp . yes , joe has a secret , but , not only is it easy to guess , it's also not very interesting . the first half hour of the picture is worth recommending , but after that , you're better off giving up rather than staying with it . like the cheshire cat , the movie slowly fades away . but , rather than leaving only a smile , all the movie leaves are some pristine-perfect period automobiles and other set decorations . it is rated r for some language and brief nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
0	it stars a famous , gorgeous foreign actress ( juliette binoche ) who boldly appears quite unattractive . it features unhappy and unsympathetic characters whose actions dare you to like them , but whose circumstances are so dire that you feel guilty if you don't . finally it has a director who figures that , if he doesn't proceed with excruciating slowness , you will not appreciate the gravity of the characters' situations and the importance of the material . in short , it's the high-minded type of film that will have those less dedicated filmgoers heading for the exits before the first 15 long minutes have elapsed . to be fair the actors try hard , perhaps too hard , and the images , especially those of the steel-gray parisian twilight , are handsomely filmed . with a patch over one eye , a cut and bruised lip and a splotchy complexion , binoche's normally striking beauty is completely masked . mich ? le and alex strike up an almost instant friendship and like nothing better than swigging cheap wine from identical large bottles until they obtain the desired degree of inebriation . with realistic background sounds and little dialog , the movie has the feel of a documentary . it's hard to criticize a picture like this with its lofty intentions , but it is even harder to sit through it all . this much can be said , the director does make living an indigent and alcoholic life look pretty unappealing . the problem is that in the process he makes watching the movie just as undesirable . the movie is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for violence , language , sexuality/nudity and substance abuse and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
1	it's bad enough to be ill on your 37th birthday , but gillian ( michelle pfeiffer ) is considerably worse off . hollywood is often at its worst when attempting to deal seriously with issues of life and death . since most major motion picture studios are most comfortable making " feel good " movies , they become skittish when faced with a script that confronts death . as a result , instead of employing the subtlety and keen insight which would generate powerful results ( see dead man walking for an example ) , directors typically resort to melodrama and manipulation . the subject matter is emotionally- wrenching , but it's handled unevenly , with the accent on trying to make the audience cry rather than feel . to its credit , there are times when to gillian gets things right . as a likable man who can't quite cope with his devastating loss , david is consistent and believable . and , for the most part , his scenes with gillian are nicely-handled . at times , to gillian strikes the proper emotional chord in their interaction -- david loves rachel , but he's so blinded by his own pain that he can't see how much he's hurting her . unfortunately , there are other instances , such as when david doesn't approve of a boyfriend , that play like scenes from a tv sitcom . personally , i would have preferred a lot more interaction between david and rachel , and a few more scenes with gillian , since michelle pfeiffer fits nicely into the role . to gillian wants to use paul and esther as a contrast to david and gillian , but it never really works . the film wouldn't have changed one iota without her . performances also factor into how we feel about the characters -- kathy baker isn't very good , but both gallagher and danes are . the plot jumps around and there's a feeling that certain relationships should be more complex than what we're seeing . there are times when this movie gets on track and delivers a series of surprisingly effective scenes , but it doesn't sustain the momentum . in fact , the likability of the main characters makes this inconsistency all the more frustrating . i've seen some comparisons between to gillian and ghost , but , aside from the " presence " of a dead lover , there's not much connection -- this is a more somber , less metaphysical story . and , despite its various problems , to gillian on her 37th birthday occasionally touches a core of emotional honesty that makes you wonder how much better it could have been had all the extraneous characters been jettisoned . -- ingmar bergman 
1	as the one giving the orders , the big boss , he is a less portly version of sydney greenstreet , playing the type of role once reserved for the mirthful greenstreet . don't ask too much more about the plot , it is not particularly pertinent , and some explanations about what this film is about , were obviously snipped off at the cutting room . but an unclear story and poor dubbing quality of most of the non-english speaking actors , does not really hamper the absurdity presented on screen , because it is done in such a way , that it defies any critical commentary , having a dark humor about it that is funnier than hell . chabrol has gone to absurd extremes of humor in this commercially driven screwball comic/mystery , that has the agents working for the greek government , at least i think that is who they are working for . the one in charge of them , is a lazy , sleazy , and mediocre bureaucrat , named sharp ( bouquet ) , aptly named because he is a dull wit , who is clueless about what is going on , as he confronts the two agents working for him , the imaginative but usually wrong , robert , and the more steady dex ( ronet ) , who like sharp , has his eye on robert's appealing wife , shanny , only he doesn't get his face slapped like sharp does by her , as sharp makes too much of an overt pass at her . jean seberg , the much maligned actress , is just terrific in this breezy role , showing a certain amount of vulnerability and courage and sex appeal , and an eye for comic timing , as she takes over for robert when he is killed just before he was going to tell her the info he has about the black boxes , and they were to celebrate the news with champagne and love making . the road to corinthe , the european title for the film , is the road to the marble foundry owned by kalhides . it is the place where there is this great mix of intrigue and murder and comedy , as the black boxes are discovered there , hidden in the statues' heads , and as kalhides says , if you think i'm not imaginative enough to put them someplace else , you are wrong , because some of them i have put in the base of the statue . it is a wonderful b movie experience , that rips deliciously into the spy film genre and comes away with a bundle of laughs for all its awkwardness and a ridiculous ending to a story that fails to make much sense . i think chabrol hit it best , when the opening epigraph states , " i do not ask you to believe it , but i suggest that you dream about it . " well , maybe , you don't want to dream about it , but if you daydream about it during the time of day when you are a little bored with things or upset over something , the absurdity of this film should bring a smile to you . 
2	taylor hackford's the devil's advocate has many laudable qualities , but subtlety is not among them . and , in what is arguably the most believable aspect of the movie , the devil's advocate takes lawyer-bashing to its logical extreme by making lucifer the head of a prestigious law firm . see what i mean -- no subtlety . that being said , the devil's advocate is a highly-enjoyable motion picture that's part character study , part supernatural thriller , and part morality play . although the film isn't a landmark combination of unique elements ( viewers will find themselves reminded of both the witches of eastwick and the firm ) , it has a lot of energy and the rather long 145-minute running time passes quickly . co-writer tony gilroy ( the cutting edge , dolores claiborne ) , who was brought in by director hackford ( dolores claiborne ) to expand upon jonathan lemkin's original adaptation of andrew niederman's novel , has produced a script that transcends any one specific genre , criss-crossing back and forth from horror to satire to melodrama . kevin's approach to a trial isn't that it's a forum for justice , but a game to be won or lost -- and he is willing to do anything for victory , even if he knows that his client is guilty ( the official term for this kind of person is a " sleazeball " ) . of course , this is the kind of over-the-top role that pacino plays best , and his virtuoso performance comes complete with a pair of the kind of monologues that he does better than anyone else working in hollywood today . of all the recent approaches to this role , pacino's dracula-esque method stands alongside the work of jack nicholson ( the witches of eastwick ) and max von sydow ( needful things ) as the most memorable . although the spotlight shines squarely on pacino , there are other actors in the film . and , while pacino's performance is the best , it's not the most surprising . there are times when reeves lacks the subtlety that would have made this a more multi-layered portrayal , but it's nevertheless a solid job . spicy chalize theron ( trial and error ) is fine as mary ann , bringing equal parts sex appeal and pathos to a surprisingly well-developed role . aside from pacino's performance , the greatest strength of the film is its delicious build-up to an operatic climax . and , although huge parts of the devil's advocate are overblown and overplayed , it's never as silly as it has the potential to be -- and this quality consistently keeps the picture out of the dangerous realm of self-parody . the movie's greatest weakness is its ending , which , by trying to be too clever , ends up cheating the audience of a legitimate conclusion . while there's a sense of closure , it's not an especially satisfying one . oddly enough , with two of the most high-profile horror films of the year ( scream 2 and an american werewolf in paris ) slated for a december release , the devil's advocate may be the best option for a " halloween flick , " and the pairing of pacino and reeves should assure it a healthy bow at the box office . it doesn't hurt that the script is more intelligent that one might initially suppose and that the storyline is developed better than the theatrical previews cause it to appear to be . the devil's advocate certainly has problems , chief of which is the subtlety thing , but pacino's performance is so fun to watch that it eclipses the most significant of them . " for me , the cinema is not a slice of life , but a piece of cake . " 
1	an atmospheric , thrilling whodunit , that is full of surprises , is fast-paced , and is well-acted . but the case puzzles him as all the clues so easily point to brent , it's as if the ex-con has been framed . 
1	skarsgard's chilling performance does a pyschological number on his character , and the mysterious and soberly colorful norwegian atmosphere gives this film an appealing flavor , allowing it to appear as if were a noir film . this more than makes up for the less than appealing story line . it is worth a look , if for no other reason , than to see how a murder is handled in a beautiful and idyllic country such as norway . but this film has more to offer than that ; it seriously questions police conduct and authority , as it leaves a very damaging message , something that is hard to ignore about authority figures the world-over : questioning if the police are mentally fit for the work they do . 
1	france/guinea , 1994 running length : 1 : 28 mpaa classification : no mpaa /96 , 5/12/96 cast : baba camara , madou camara , kouda camara , moussa keita , koumba doumbouya , yaya traore director : laurent chevalier producer : beatrice korc screenplay : laurent chevalier , freely adapted from the novel by laye camara cinematography : amar arhab music : momo wandel soumah in french and malinke with subtitles film maker laurent chevalier has chosen a unique , perhaps unprecedented , manner of adapting laye camara's 1953 autobiography , l'enfant noir . actually , there are arguments why this film might have been better- suited to the documentary format ( indeed , the voiceover and camera style are like those of a documentary ) . the narrative is stark and simple , with little or no dramatic content . character development is minimal . chevalier is more interested in presenting themes and ideas about change across africa , culture shock , and the maturation of a boy in a changing world . because of the weak dramatic structure , however , most of this film feels more like a treatise or an essay than a story . the most interesting aspect of the african child is its insight into a culture that most viewers will be unfamiliar with . elements of the african child are fascinating , but few of the best aspects have much to do with baba's brush with adulthood . idrissa ouedraogo's film , the cry of the heart , tells a similar story in a more satisfying fashion -- it has emotional depth to go along with its thematic strength . the african child piques the intellectual centers of the mind , but rarely touches the heart . it works as an examination of the changing nature of life in africa , and as a contrast between cities and underdeveloped villages , but those aims might have been accomplished more effectively in a different , and shorter , medium . 
0	what is the worst thing that can happen to you in a movie theater ? sitting next to a group of people who not only talk incessantly back to the screen , but who say nothing but inanities and bathroom humor . well , welcome to your worst nightmare , mystery science theater 3000 : the movie . mst3k's format is they take an old science fiction movie and make fun of it with non-stop jabbering . they are forced to watch old sci-fi movies , but end up enjoying them . mike and his two mechanical buddies are shown silhouetted in the bottom of the screen talking back to the movie which occupies the rest of the screen . in mst3k there are also scenes without benefit of the old movie . the laughs here are rare . the only piece of dialog i like is when crow tells the others , " i calculated the odds of this succeeding versus doing something very stupid , and i decided to go ahead . " sort of like what producer jim mallon did when he decided to make a feature length movie of something people had tired of seeing on television . i have never seen this island earth before and the best part of mst3k is getting to see it . the worst part is the non-stop rambling by mike and the robots . i guess i must confess my prejudices . i watch little television , and when i have channel surfed past this show in the past on tv , i have not been impressed . the concept is fine , but the implementation , thanks to director jim mallon and writers michael j . nelson , trace beaulieu , jim mallon , kevin murphy , mary jo pehl , paul chaplin , and bridget jones is fatally flawed . if you run out of ideas for dialog , admit it and cut back to only the material worth filming . moreover , the characters do not have to suffer from diarrhea of the mouth . let the old film speak for itself most of the time , and then a few jabs will prove much funnier . i can not print mst3k's bathroom humor in this g rated review , but think of the type of tasteless commentary that a 9 year old might come up with as vulgar humor , and you get the idea . this is supposed to be funny ? there were a few members of the audience who laughed frequently , but most were like me and just stared at the screen . there are a couple of funny parts . if you think about it , some of the titles people get in movie credits are pretty esoteric . perhaps because they were not interrupting a better movie , i liked most of their jokes during the credits . if they had taken this island earth and perhaps some other films in this 50s sci-fi genre , they would have had the core of a fascinating documentary which would have been much better than mst3k . alternatively , if they felt they had to stay with this contrived format , the writers should have drastically limited how often mike and the robots should speak . as it is , i was constantly wanting to scream at them , " shut up ! " mystery science theater 3000 : the movie runs a mercifully short 1 : 14 . it is correctly rated pg-13 for bad language and gross humor . there is no sex , nudity or violence . given the setup of the film , there is no reason why they did not make a g or at most a pg show . the crudeness of the script detracted dramatically from the quality of the movie . done right this should have been a show fine for my seven year old . thank goodness , i did not bring him . i do suspect the film will be okay for most kids over 9 or 10 since by then they are all too familiar with crude humor . i do not recommend the film , although loyal fans of the show will probably enjoy it . i give it * 1/2 solely because i did enjoy seeing parts of this island earth . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	united states , 1996 shown at the 1996 sxsw film festival running length : 1 : 25 mpaa classification : no mpaa rating ( mature themes , profanity ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 the destiny of marty fine is a shoestring-budget independent feature with a fascinating premise that is totally wasted . talky , boring , and ultimately pointless , this film is distinguished only by several effective performances and a few nicely-written scenes . in general , however , marty fine is a disappointment . it's one thing to be quirky ; it's another to be incoherent . that's all it is , however -- a dream . marty doesn't even have pocket change , not to mention the dose of cash needed for such an ambitious project . much to marty's surprise , the promoter expresses some interest . ultimately , marty fine isn't concerned about telling a story . the narrative gets lost in a seemingly-endless sequence of uninteresting conversations . there's nothing inherently wrong with ninety minutes of dialogue , as long as what's being said is worth hearing . that's not the case here . the only ones who appreciate what these people have to say are the characters themselves . the cinematography , done in 16 mm black-and-white , is suitably atmospheric , but the noir-ish quality of the production is undermined by its confusing and unfocused storyline . it's never clear where marty fine is going , or whether it ever gets there . transitions are virtually nonexistent , and the ending is abrupt . the actors all do good jobs ( even norman fell ! ) , but their skills are wasted on such sub-par material . i have little doubt that marty fine is destined for obscurity . 
1	are the triple demands of work , family , and home too much for you lately ? ever find time for yourself ? how often do you get to practice your golf game ? one of you not enough ? how about three more to help you out ? be warned , however , there are a few pitfalls to this wonder cure to your chronic exhaustion . although doug is worried that his clone will be half human and half insect as in the fly , number two is a perfect duplicate with the same memory as doug . as it turns out , two is tougher and harder working than doug which is fine with number one . since number three turns out to have more of doug's gentler and domestic side , this looks pretty ideal . as number one puts it , " i've been working since i was twelve ; it's break time . " four is , well , not exactly perfect . as three puts it , " we made a copy of number two . you know , sometimes the copy isn't as sharp as the original . " that's an understatement . with this great setup and with michael keaton's comedic skills , it would be hard to make a bad movie . multiplicity , while far from a great comedy , did provide this critic with a lot of laughs and made for a thoroughly enjoyable time at the movies . yes , there are several periods devoid of humor , and some of the physical comedy is a bit too outlandish . nevertheless , this is one funny movie . the script by the committee of lowell ganz , mary hale , babaloo mandel , chris miller , and harold ramis comes up more with situations that are funny than with witty dialog . the housing development doug is working on , for example , is proclaimed in the billboard to be vista de nada . there are some gems in the script . number one keeps reminding the others of rule number one , " nobody has sex with my wife but me . " the acting by michael keaton is excellent albeit not as good as some of his performances . in a secondary role , andie macdowell holds her own . her acting gets better and better as the movie unfolds . i admire the talent of both these performers and since they have almost all of the lines in the show , i got to see a lot of them . it is rated pg-13 . there is no sex , nudity , violence , and the language is pretty mild . i suspect the reason it got pg-13 rather than pg is because there are a few sexual situations . the film would be fine for most kids ten and over . i recommend the show and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : august 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	there is a moment in oscar & lucinda in which oscar hopkins lets the direction of his life be decided by the flip of a coin . looking boyish and unstable , fiennes again proves the wide range of his acting talent . like werner herzog's powerful film fitzcarraldo about an opera house in the jungle , the crux of the story deals with moving the materials for a large building in a hostile and primitive setting . potentially the most interesting part of the movie , the outback excursion gets little screen time . most of the movie is devoted to oscar and his worries about his gambling . i had major problems with screenwriter laura jones's last pictures , a thousand acres and the portrait of a lady , and this one was only marginally better . adapted from a novel by peter carey , the movie has trouble creating compelling characters . they are certainly interesting to watch , as are the inviting images by little women's cinematographer geoffrey simpson , but they have no depth . some of the language is poetic but rarely is it involving . quirkiness can carry a picture just so far , and at two and a quarter hours , the movie begins to wear out its welcome long before the ending credits roll . the rich and constant narration by geoffrey rush suggests a larger meaning than the story has . similarly , the movie tries to mesmerize us with its whimsy but doesn't seem to believe in its own material . the show does have its delights , but too often we simply don't care . with tighter editing and better character development , the movie and its enjoyment potential could have been enhanced immensely . oscar & lucinda runs 2 : 14 . it is rated r for violence , sex , and brief nudity and would be fine for teenagers . 
2	iceland/germany/norway/denmark , 1996 running length : 1 : 43 mpaa classification : no mpaa /97 & 5/11/97 cast : baltasar korm=e1kur , g=edsli halld=f3rsson , sigurveig j=f3nsd=f3ttir director : fridrik thor fridriksson producers : fridrik thor fridriksson , peter rommel , egil =d6degaard , =20 peter aalb=e6k jensen screenplay : einar k=e1rason cinematography : ari kristinsson music : hilmar =d6rn hilmarsson in icelandic with subtitles in some ways , devil's island is like another fridriksson film , =20 movie days . both offer glimpses through windows into the past and each=20 emphasizes one of the film maker's recurring themes : the pervasive=20 influence of american culture on icelandic society . it's here , in camp thule , that we meet=20 the tomasson family . throughout his films , fridriksson has never been judgmental about=20 the americanization of icelandic culture . while one could see devil's=20 island as an indictment of that trend -- more negative effects than=20 positive ones are shown -- exactly the opposite was true in movie days , =20 which reflected the director's own childhood experiences . rather than=20 making a specific political statement , fridriksson is attempting to=20 present an honest ( if occasionally nostalgic ) depiction of how things=20 were . perhaps the most compelling aspect of devil's island is the not-so- friendly brotherly rivalry between baddi and danni . even though baddi=20 is revered in the neighborhood while danni is regarded with thinly- veiled contempt , the elvis-like rebel delights in humiliating his=20 socially inept sibling . ultimately , however , it's baddi who remains=20 tied to the ground while danni is given the opportunity to soar , even if=20 there is a bittersweet twist to this . unlike cold fever , which was as much a spiritual journey as a=20 physical one , devil's island isn't especially ambitious . in the end , =20 it's really just a simple tale of the sometimes-comic , sometimes-tragic=20 struggles of one family . but it's beautifully photographed and well- written , and those qualities make for an enjoyable motion picture . =20 though a less " global " movie than its predecessor , devil's island=20 deserves the same level of attention accorded to cold fever . 
1	check your brains at the door . it's time for some silly summer fun in armageddon as bruce willis and co . kick some asteroid tail . when a big rock last headed for our planet in deep impact , it was soap opera time . it's summer now when even flying boulders the size of texas can be seen only as a lark . it's just a matter of time . " actually this one is just a baby , his big mama is on the way . think starship troopers , but more ridiculous . in armageddon's defense , it at least realizes it is a parody , something that many recent films haven't been smart enough to figure out . ( the movie will win many viewers' hearts early on with the scene of a small dog attacking a street display of godzilla toys . given that many are bigger than him , it is a nice metaphor that size doesn't matter . ) armageddon delights in being politically incorrect . " i understand that you are handicapped by natural immaturity , but i forgive you , " she tells him . although there are many contenders for the movie's most ridiculous part , a . j . 's lovemaking scene with grace has to be the winner . the one universal demand is that they never want to pay taxes ever again . the special effects are anything but , and the scene is dark and murky . if you can only see one asteroid movie this year , deep impact , with all of its faults , is probably the better choice . but if you're looking for laughs and have plenty of time to kill , armageddon is just about as good . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi disaster action , sensuality and brief profanity and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
2	how about this for a concept ? an autobiographical story about a boy and his dog that doesn't have any special effects , no talking animals and no promotional toy tie-ins . jay russell's my dog skip is just a good , old-fashioned , heart-warming story that is so genuine and touching that it should appeal to people of all ages , even those with no kids . the sweetest little dog imaginable , skip is a lovable pup who's full of energy . the director finds lots of adorable things for the canine to do without ever letting the story turn schmaltzy . typical of the inspired staging is the delightful , time-lapse visual of skip as he is growing up until he is finally big enough to jump up and drink from the family's white porcelain toilet bowl . " the dog of your boyhood teaches you a great deal , " willie tells us of skip . " you could talk to him better than you could talk to most human beings . " the movie is filled with wonderfully poetic narration by harry connick , jr . , as the voice of the adult willie . and this was the summer that willie learned quite a few . many of the episodes are quite humorous , and all are honest and genuine . the warmly nostalgic picture is filmed in radiantly inviting colors and filled with richly evocative music . as a viewer , you will vicariously get to enjoy skip's friendship . and if you find yourself both applauding and crying during the picture , as i did , don't be surprised . actually , if you don't cry , you'll probably want to get a check-up . the film joyously reminds us all of just how wonderful life can be . the good-spirited picture will likely bring back many fond memories of your childhood . i too had a terrier , although mine was half cocker spaniel . there are other similarities , but i can't mention them without giving away key plot points . i relived my childhood while watching the film . what more could you ask for ? my dog skip runs 1 : 35 . it is rated pg for some violent content and mild language . the film would be fine for all ages , including people without kids at all . be warned , however , that some of the tragedies in the picture may briefly frighten impressionable kids under around 8 . my son jeffrey , age 10 , absolutely adored the movie . he gave it * * * * and said that it should win an oscar . he liked everything about the movie , and he loved skip . jeffrey's buddy nickolas , age 10 , gave the picture * * * , saying it was funny and had a good plot . and , of course , he too thought skip was terrific . 
2	cast : ashley judd , luke perry director : john mcnaughton producers : richard maynard and john saviano screenplay : peg haller and bob schneider cinematography : jean de segonzac music : robert mcnaughton and ken hale u . s . distributor : fine line features the more i watched , the more intrigued i became . this wasn't the usual late-night , direct-to-cable fare . it was a motion picture of some intelligence and insight . i didn't find out its name , normal life , until it was over . and it wasn't until weeks later , when it received a blink-and-you'll- miss-it run in about a half-dozen markets , that i learned the story behind the movie . for some reason which even now is unclear , fine line features , normal life's distributor , elected not to release the film in theaters , opting instead for a run on hbo . this infuriated director john mcnaughton ( henry : portrait of a serial killer ) , who claimed that he never would have directed the movie had he been aware of fine line's intentions . few movie-goers had an opportunity to see it . now , normal life is out on both video cassette and laser disc , and its availability should generate a wider audience . since i don't live in or around chicago , and don't remember any headlines about the situation , i can't say how closely normal life sticks to the facts . ultimately , it doesn't really matter . normal life is compelling because of the characters and their twisted , co-dependent relationship , not because it falls into the often-sordid category of having its narrative built around a real criminal case . despite having the good looks of a cheerleader , pam is not the perfect wife . there's something about pam that holds him in thrall . it's easy for him -- he's good at it . have i given away too much of the plot ? not really , since the film's non-linear chronology begins near the end , then flashes back to the beginning . normal life isn't really about whether pam and chris get away with their crimes -- they don't , and that point is never in doubt . rather , it's about how they relate to each other , and how pam's manic- depressive behavior destroys not only her own life , but chris' as well . why would someone stay with a woman like this ? watching ashley judd's wrenching , uninhibited portrayal of pam , it's easy to understand the reasons . buried beneath the madness , there's a sweetness and vulnerability that cries out for protection and nurturing . chris is drawn to that like a moth to a flame , and the outcome is just as gruesome . i have watched normal life twice now ( well , one and three-quarters times , to be precise ) , and i don't understand fine line's decision regarding the movie's distribution . maybe they felt it was too intense , but it's this intensity that draws the audience in . perry and especially judd do amazing jobs and mcnaughton once again proves that he is capable of presenting an unconventional , psychologically-true picture of criminal behavior . by depicting the sham of " normality " , normal life reminds us how fictitious and unattainable the " american dream " can be . 
1	the hand that rocks the cradle . unlawful entry . you know the genre and the players . the latest member of this not-too-exclusive club is james foley's fear , a kinetic , visually dazzling thriller that's actually a notch above many of its predecessors -- albeit only a small notch . why is fear better ? first , an attempt is made to develop all of the significant characters , and there are occasions when they step outside the cliched molds that so often confine men and women in thrillers . secondly , unlike in the hand that rocks the cradle , where the villain was actually the most interesting character , here , the protagonists grab our attention and sympathy far better than the bad guy . things in the walker household aren't all sunny , but this isn't a particularly dysfunctional family , either -- the tensions are mostly believable . it's not a great performance , but it's adequate for the film's purposes . reese witherspoon manages a tantalizing blend of sensuality and innocence -- the same qualities that have made alicia silverstone so popular . alyssa milano , who took the unusual step from tv sitcoms to soft porn direct-to-video flicks , is a little overwrought , but not too bad . don't expect any surprises from fear . it's not that kind of thriller . but its visceral appeal is enhanced by thomas kloss' energetic camerawork . the film also isn't as exploitative as many similar movies -- there's some eroticism , but no gratuitous nudity or exceptionally graphic violence ( unless you count the grisly fate of a pet ) . this certainly isn't a great film -- or even a particularly good one -- but it will appeal to a certain audience . as predictable , formulaic thrillers go , fear at least has a few things going for it . 
1	mpaa rating : pg-13 ( violence , mild profanity ) . running time : 85 minutes . the strange re-release patterns inspired by chan's sudden american popularity has made it nearly impossible to make any sense of the police story chronology , if making sense of things like this matter to you . first strike itself makes only a rudimentary kind of sense , but chan's hair-raising stunts and affable demeanor rarely require much set-up to be enjoyable . a chase sequence involving gun-toting skiers is straight out of for your eyes only ; the underwater battles in a shark tank with oxygen the most prized possession is vintage thunderball . the scenery shifts from hong kong to the ukraine to australia , serving up a few sacrificial vehicles ( helicopters , a funeral carriage ) for big-time explosions . throw in a saul bass opening credits sequence and a vodka martini and you might think 007 had become a celibate asian . unfortunately , while first strike is the grandest of chan's american releases , it is also the least charming , for most of the same reasons . jackie chan films don't work because of large scale set pieces ; they work because chan himself is extremely personable and because his unmatched fight choreography can make you giddy with pleasure . the moments when chan gets to show his stuff up close are wonderful -- he flips through windows as though he were made of paper , dances across rooftops , uses an inflatable pool toy to walk quite literally on water . the extended sequence where he takes on four men by turning a broom , papier mache dragon heads and an eight foot ladder into weapons is one of the most spectacular hand-to-hand combat sequences i have ever seen on screen , a combination of martial arts and acrobatics edited with astonishing fluidity . while the more elaborate bits fall flat with ho-hum familiarity , the seven minutes of that one fight sequence make first strike worth seeing . the very end of that sequence may be just as indicative of what makes a jackie chan action film unique . as superhuman as chan can be on screen , he is also quite human in his persona . he doesn't endear himself to the audience by tossing off dreary one-liners ; he simply plays a guy , sometimes silly and sometimes embarrassed , who happens to be able to defy gravity . jackie chan's first strike is a terminally dopey spy thriller with anyone else in the lead role . jackie chan alone is enough to make the thought of first strike 2 -- or is that supercop 3 , or police story 5 ? -- somewhat appealing . 
0	this lighthearted fantasy asks , what if the idealist h . g . wells didn't just write about the time machine but lived it ! it's mainly an emotionally flat , one running joke type of lightweight literary film that is done in by a very dull middle section and too much unnecessary gore . the director-writer nicholas meyer ( star trek 11 ) -- he also wrote the witty novel " seven percent solution " -- worked the screenplay from his own novel , showing some clever touches here and there , but not enough to hold my interest for the duration of the film . the theme grew tiresome and david warner as jack the ripper never developed as a particularly interesting villain . there was nothing gained by seeing him hold a scalpel to a woman's throat and then slit it . if you don't have the key , you can't return . in san francisco , there are some amusing moments as the naive wells has to adjust to the modern complexities of the world and its hustle and bustle . he seems adorably old-fashioned and gentlemanly , with a very stand-offish british wit , while she's an aggressive woman's libber , a modern california-type of lady , and an admirer of british eccentrics who are straight . it just advanced in technology but regressed into a more violent state than ever before . the film has many plot holes and flaws , one of them is : that it is not possible to go back in time and change history , all one can change is something that is only a duplicate , even if you think you are changing something , you are only deceived by appearances . albert einstein mentioned that about time travel and that's good enough for me . the jack the ripper part of the story never really worked as a thriller , it all seemed too heavy and misplaced , i am certain the film could have been salvaged if it kept with the fantasy/romance story between amy and wells . that part of the film was amusing and gave way to some interesting insights about the modern world . the film suffered from being too poorly presented , as it always appeared less than exciting , nevertheless it was occasionally diverting , and some cult sci-fi fans might like it more than the general public should . 
2	. . . in a predominately jewish audience in greenish village , i was privileged to be able to see this incredible film . given that most documentaries get at most a highly limited release , i will try to go into more detail than normal , both to encourage you to try to find the film and to tell you the gist of the story since you probably never will be able to see it . it should get an academy award nomination , but given the unreliability of the documentary branch of the academy -- even hoop dreams was ignored -- it will undoubtedly slip into obscurity without the honors it deserves . the film makes sparing use of the traditional talking heads and has some well chosen old film clips and still pictures to illustrate the history . the men wear black hats and suits and have scraggly beards and two long " side curls . " the second half of the film comes back to some of this controversy but the rest of the first part is devoted to an almost completely sympathetic view of hasidics . still , their rules may seem anathema to most of us , while we envy their undeniable and infectious happiness . if there is one word that symbolizes this close knit community it has to be love . they say that they emphasize the positive benefits of doing the right thing rather than warning their members of the consequences of doing something wrong . storytelling is their method of teaching , and the movie relates several of these short stories . these are persistent people . one man in the film had 79 grandchildren . one of my favorites is a female shopkeeper who talks about seeing television for the first time while in the hospital . the filmmakers point out that this limits them generally to at best a middle-class lifestyle and not a very lavish one with a dozen mouths to feed . although happy , the hasidics do not assimilate well . they want nothing to do with outsiders , not because they don't like them , but because they have their own community . even given the self-imposed limitations of their lifestyle , hasidic jews remain unabashedly exuberant . this documentary manages to be as happy and funny as the hasidic jews themselves . the result is a very convincing film makes you yearn for their simple and contented life . it is not rated but would be a g . the film would be fine for all ages , but i suspect one would need to be at least nine to appreciate it . i strongly recommend the film and give it * * * 1/2 . maybe someday it will play in your city or perhaps one day you find a dusty tape at a video store with this film inside . keep your eyes peeled . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : august 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	welcome to massachusetts , 1666 , where puritans , indians , and adultery come together in roland joffe's overlong , overwrought re-interpretation of nathaniel hawthorne's classic , the scarlet letter . literary purists will be aghast at some of the liberties taken with the original text , but my complaints have more to do with cinematic misjudgments than with those in the book-to-screen translation . and , believe me , there are plenty of problems with this production without having to resort to a cry of " it's not faithful to the book ! " first and foremost is the casting of demi moore as hester prynne . while moore has acted effectively in contemporary films like st . elmo's fire and disclosure , she's out of her depth in this sumptuous period piece . her range is insufficient for the fiery hester , resulting in the sort of weak performance that occurs when an actor tries too hard to reach a character that's beyond them . the movie opens considerably in advance of the novel's first scene , and the script by douglas day stewart delves deeply into early events only hinted at in hawthorne's tale . much of this background , despite being speculative , works , although it takes forever for the romance between hester and dimmesdale to get off the ground . her eventual punishment for fornication and adultery is to wear a scarlet " a " on her breast at all times to remind the townspeople of her sin . this forms the core of the film . is love wrong just because it contravenes certain man-made laws ? robert duvall's abilities are seriously underused in the role as envisioned by joffe and stewart . one area where this movie version of the scarlet letter is masterful is in its depiction of the setting . the mock-up of colonial boston is convincing , and great care is taken to assure that there are no obvious anachronisms . the forest , which is virtually a character in the novel , has its own life in the film , as well . on the whole , this is a beautiful-looking picture , but the scarlet letter is in need of more than a nice appearance . the weakest part of the script is the ending . aside from straying significantly from that of the book , the final quarter-hour turns this rather lugubrious melodrama into an action film . someone tuning in late in the proceedings might mistake the finale for a scene from the last of the mohicans . in principle , i don't have a problem with changing hawthorne's downbeat conclusion , but the result should be more thoughtful than this painfully facile , " hollywood-ized " version . credit should be given to the film makers for attempting to adapt a classic american novel for modern audiences . ( the most recent previous english-language motion picture treatment was made over sixty years ago . ) unfortunately , poor casting and script choices have reduced this film to little more than a period piece soap opera . the letter placed upon hester's breast may be an " a " , but roland joffe's film doesn't deserve much better than a " c- " on its report card . 
2	like water for chocolate is a wonderful , magical movie from mexico . it is a tragedy of shakespearean proportions . as i watched it , i keep thinking it reminded me of shakespeare's play romeo and juliet and of wager's opera gotterdammerung . within the confines of the basic plot setup is the heart of the movie . try to imagine what she does . i can only say : wow ! this food magic is the heart of the movie . i will not give any of it away , but i will say this . if your sweetheart seems to love cooking above all else and is extremely talented at it , then watch out ! watch the lighting especially . the nights scenes are all candlelit and have a wonderful dark radiant glow . the day scenes inside have the natural light pouring in with a different beautiful lighting effect . i liked the way the girl was kind of cute but mainly homely . her acting was just about perfect . very easy to hate the mother . like water for chocolate is in spanish with easy to follow english subtitles . the movie is a short 1 : 53 . it is rated r for a few scenes of full nudity of both sexes , but i think pg-13 would have been more appropriate . i think it would be an excellent show for teenagers to see . oh yes , the ending is excellent . i recommend you see it and have no trouble awarding it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	a love letter to the cinema , as some well-known hollywood musical films are paid homage to , as well as orson welles' the magnificent ambersons , using the following quote from that film : " in those days they had time for everything . " the film is about his innocent autobiographical reflections , which are devoid of sentimentality and are emotially rich in seeing what influenced the child to be the kind of adult he became . what the film lacks in script and conventional production values , it makes up in poetical lyricism . what takes place on the screen is a series of close-ups of the child and allusions about the child's reactions to growing up , without any particular effort to tell a story . it makes for a different way of filmmaking , one that is plotless , that would have been marvelous if it weren't so boring at times . yet , there are shots that are memorable , making me want to applaud davies for the effort more than for the result . the film , like the reading of poetry , demands concentration on its visualizations and allows for the free translation of what is seen , as no explanations follow . the closing shot of the long day closes , is of a striking sunset in black & white images , which was very evocative , the suggestion being of how grinding this childhood period was for the child trying to come to grips with things , but now looking back at it , he can see all the beauty in it that was always there , and not the least , being the way his mother always had such a chipper attitude . there is a warm place in the film reserved for the standard contemporary pop music of the times , with such songs as " i don't know why i love you like i do " and , " at sundown , " which is sung by doris day ; judy garland sings " over the bannister " ; and , " tammy " is sung by debbie reynolds . " the major problem with this experimental film is not the poetry or the wonderful images seen , but that it is not a fulfilling cinematic experience because we don't get to know any characters in the film with any depth and we are more or less left with snapshot impressions of what bud experienced rather than feeling we know him better than that . for those who have fallen in love with art films , this one might be better suited to your taste than to the general public's . 
0	" human warmth was very present . thus we have a film of revisionist history in which the filmmaker seems to be saying that if , we just brought back communist totalitarianism , the people would pull together and be happy again . regardless of the background for the picture , the story by andrei kurkov has a promising plot but little more . if this all sounds like a fascinating black comedy , it isn't . the movie is devoid of humor , and the director stages scenes way too slowly , emphasizing the tragedy of the film's depressed protagonist . vladimir gronsky's melancholy music permeates many of the scenes to remind of us of the pervasive sorrow in the land . and all the compelling characters disappeared from this movie before the filming started . all that we are left with is the outlines of a story . it is in russian with english subtitles . the picture is rated r for some nudity , profanity and violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
2	nerdy 15-year-old max fischer , played by a perfectly cast jason schwartzman , might appear to have it all . max's talents appear limitless . rushmore , written by wes anderson and owen wilson and directed by wes anderson , isn't a movie that's easy to pigeonhole . the trailers would lead you to believe that it's a comedy and probably a bad slapstick one . the movie is certainly funny , and , unlike what the trailers suggest , it isn't that over-the-top . in addition to the humor , the story has two quirky romances and some sweet undertones . most of all , it's a poignant tale about two people who have had limited success in their lives . although max excels at some things , academically and socially he's am unqualified disaster . in an empathetic performance , murray takes an understated approach . with just the rolling of his eyes , he imparts a deliciously mocking humor , revealing how bereft his character is of any joy in his life . the incident is reminiscent of the graduate , as is some of the rest of this unusual motion picture . olivia williams , the female lead from the postman , plays rosemary with an inviting sweetness . robert d . yeoman's cinematography gives the picture a bleak and austere look that has a fargoish feel to it . the images are colorful , yet flat and devoid of warmth , reflecting the desperation of the characters . it's not often that two award pins can summarize a person's life , but max's pins can . prominently displayed on his sport coat are his awards for " perfect attendance " and " punctuality . " if , as woody allen said , " 90% of life is just showing up , " max does have some major accomplishments to his credit . it is rated r for profanity and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	squat little extraterrestrial with a telescoping neck . well , actually , it's a golden retriever named buddy . from the trailers and promotions for air bud , you might be expecting a rambunctious sports comedy about a bad-team-made-good in the recent disney tradition , with a hoops-playing pooch leading a basketball team to victory -- sort of the mighty dogs . with a few token exceptions , it's nothing of the kind . screenwriters paul tamasy and aaron mendelsohn want air bud to be a touching story of a lonely boy and his dog , something warm but slow-paced , something decidedly _not_ the mighty dogs . given the formulaic drivel disney usually passes off as live action entertainment , that noble goal alone should have made air bud worth supporting . young kevin zegers is a decent enough actor , but he's fighting against some tough precedents when he tries to make his friendship with buddy uniquely compelling , as well as fighting against charles martin smith's languid direction . the second mistake is purely the fault of disney's marketing department , which will be luring unsuspecting kids and their parents to what they believe is going to be a slapstick comedy . buddy's impressive basketball tricks might make a nice five-minute visit with letterman or leno , but they're not the stuff a feature film is made of . with the exception of one minor chase scene and the big basketball game finale ( which features the ridiculous fiction -- and anyone who has ever been to a middle school basketball game will realize this -- of a middle school basketball game with a score in the 80s and a team which runs a pivot game reminiscent of medowlark lemon-era globetrotters ) , air bud is achingly slow . twice as many children in the screening audience were roaming the aisles as were enraptured by the less-than-antic antics of josh and buddy . it's tough to knock a family film which dares to avoid bodily function humor , but air bud simply has no focus or direction , a fact made abundantly clear when the ridiculous basketball game finale gives way to an even more ridiculous courtroom finale . air bud is really deserving of praise for only one reason : it's not what it's being sold as . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	cast : christopher walken , chris penn , vincent gallo , benecio del toro , anabella sciorra , isabella rossellini , gretchen mol , john ventimiglia , paul hipp director : abel ferrara producer : mary kane screenplay : nicholas st . john cinematography : ken kelsch music : joe delia u . s . distributor : october films gangster stories have been a source of inspiration for film makers as diverse as barry levinson and quentin tarantino , so it's no surprise that abel ferrara , the " low budget martin scorsese " has thrown himself into the genre with his latest effort , the funeral . those who think they detect distant echoes of mean streets and the godfather are not deluded ; the funeral owes a debt to those , and other , features , but , by using his inimitably dark style , ferrara manages to make this material his own . that's not to say that the funeral is on the same level as either of the aforementioned films , or even that it's an unqualified success . in fact , there are plenty of things wrong with this movie , but it does hold together better than any of the director's previous films , including the uncompromising , bloody , and controversial bad lieutenant . the funeral likely won't appeal to mainstream audiences -- it's clearly an " art film " -- but it is arguably ferrara's most accessible movie to date , and is certainly better-grounded than his bizarre , black-and-white vampire tale , the addiction . the story unfolds in a fragmentary fashion , and the lack of effective transitions can leave the viewer disoriented . certain plot details are left half-explained , which can lead to frustration if you try to piece everything together . apparently , rather than telling the complete story , ferrara is content with providing select glimpses of the events that lead to johnny's death . on some levels , the ending is a stroke of brilliance ; on others , it's disappointing . i appreciate the black , bitter irony that ferrara is bringing to the fore here , but the critical action seems poorly motivated . foreshadowing doesn't absolve a film maker of the need to build naturally to a crisis , but in the funeral , certain aspects of the climax feel forced . it's as if ferrara and screenwriter nicholas st . john devised a great ending that isn't well-supported by the script , then manipulated characters and circumstances to attain the desired results . the concluding scene is a powerful way to punctuate the film , but it seems more contrived than plausible . ferrara has gotten a top-rate cast to work for him at cut rate prices , and the consistently high level of acting keeps the funeral from descending to the level of b movies . christopher walken , who is always at his best playing gangster types , gives an intense , but surprisingly subdued , interpretation of ray . the standout performance , however , belongs to chris penn , whose manic , no-holds-barred portrayal of chez is reminiscent of the work harvey keitel did in bad lieutenant . as is usual for a ferrara film , everything is gloomy and dark . most of the scenes take place either at night or in windowless rooms , and moments of comic relief are as infrequent as brightly-lit sequences . in fact , it's the pervasive , and sometimes oppressive , grimness of his movies that has earned ferrara comparisons to scorsese . stylistic issues aside , however , ferrara is still far behind when it comes to plot and character . the funeral effectively highlights the forces tearing at the fabric of a deeply dysfunctional family , but it lacks the complexity that separates movies from masterpieces . as a result , the funeral is a solid accomplishment , but not a standout achievement . 
2	if you've seen max oph ? ls' reckless moment ( 49 ) , you've seen this film . it's the same story but updated to fit modern times . my take on remakes is--if it was a great film , as the 1940s noir film was , why make another ! but , at least , this version is as good . both matriarchs give oscar quality performances , in a film that is based on the novel by elizabeth sanxay holding called " the blank wall " and directed by the team who did suture--david siegel & scott mcgehee . it didn't convince me in the older version , nor does it in the newer ; but swinton as the perfect mom is convincing , as we see the determination and pain in her face as it is drawn tight in gaunt looks out at the world that has turned hostile for her . it's a moving but restraint performance and gives the art-house thriller some depth . 
0	a rather mild comedy/mystery , filmed in b&w , featuring the bumbling comic antics of jack lemon and the ravishing beauty of kim novak . under richard quine's laborious direction , the film plods along until it perks up for its surprising ending , which is a takeoff on those slapstick silent comedies . the film failed to catch my interest even though the actors seemed to be giving an all out effort to make this turkey have legs . the main problem lies in the ridiculous script . his part was so wooden , you could have thrown it into the fireplace for kindling wood . the hilarious moments come , as lemon bumbles around while courting the mysterious kim . its offbeat comedy just didn't resonate with me . i found the production too dry and hardly on par with those buster keaton vehicles it tried to emulate and the mystery story was too lame-brain an effort to cause any fuss over . this one's watchable only for those fans of kim or lemon . i do not count myself as being one of those fans . 
2	screenplay : john richards and james flamberg . director : neil labute . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , violence , sexual situations ) running time : 110 minutes . there's something particularly delightful -- and subversive -- about a high-concept comedy that turns into something resonant . groundhog day could have been ridiculous and repetitive , but it charmed you with an unexpectedly touching romance ; being john malkovich could have been a simplistic tale of misguided celebrity worship , but it turned into an absurdist existential fantasy worthy of ionesco . hollywood excels at selling stories in a single sentence , and we come to expect that we know all there is to know about the film from that sentence . when it becomes evident that there's more to a film than its marketing-savvy premise , it's a heart-warming experience indeed . nurse betty isn't as thematically rich as either groundhog day or being john malkovich , and it's certainly not as thematically rich as director neil labute's dazzling debut in the company of men . it is , however , a peculiarly entertaining comedy that sticks in the brain for a while longer than you expect . it's entirely possible that nurse betty could have succeeded as a comedy strictly on the basis of its wild premise . labute directs with effective comic short-hand -- a scene portraying del in the middle of an affair with his secretary shows wear marks on the wall to emphasize his recidivist philandering -- and paces his showpiece sequences with a flair you might not expect from the misanthropic mind behind in the company of men . there are sharp visual gags like betty's perky look in her bloody nurse's outfit after performing an impromptu medical procedure , and slick exchanges of dialogue between charley and wesley . the performances are not uniformly appealing -- rock yells without doing much acting , and eckhart's mullet-headed lout of a husband is as broad a stereotype as you'll find - but the work by zellweger , freeman and kinnear more than takes up the slack . it's simply a funny comedy . simply funny , but far from simplistic . nurse betty takes the somewhat trite notion of soap operas as vicarious life for those with unhappy lives and twists it into provocative knots . the resolution may come to some obvious conclusions about the need to face reality , but along the way it shows a respect for the complexity of our coping mechanisms , whatever form they may take . with so much strong stuff at the center , it's a shame that nurse betty gets flabby around the edges . the attempts at entertainment industry satire don't always mesh with the edgier stuff , and the tone shifts from intense to playful on a dime . in fact , by all rights it should be just another affably mediocre piece of hollywood joke-mongering . yet even with its bumps and scrapes , nurse betty feels like more . there's something at stake , something recognizably human , something you don't often find in high-concept comedy . thanks to zellweger , freeman and ( of all people ) neil labute , there's a heart here , and a brain , too . it's an approach that takes a high concept just a bit higher . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	moulin rouge is the most audacious effort yet from director baz luhrmann , who last , in romeo + juliet , imagined two shakespearean lovers in a modern verona beach setting . this time , luhrmann turns his considerable talent to bringing back the movie musical , an art form whose obituary had supposedly long since been written . in fact there are probably enough songs in it for three musicals . the movie's phenomenal sets look like a tim burton production of willie wonka and the chocolate factory . among many imaginative and magical scenes , one has satine and christian standing on a cloud between the starry , deep blue sky and the twinkling apartment lights of paris in 1899 -- " the summer of love . " the film opens with such a long cacophony and montage of blurring images that it seems that the picture might be one of those near storyless movies like pink floyd the wall . and to answer your second : yes , they are quite good , especially mcgregor . best of all are their love duets , and their chemistry together is both credible and touching . the leading role will be sung by satine , a courtesan . a hopeless romantic , christian's fundamental believe is , " the greatest thing you'll ever learn is just to love and to be loved in return . " operatic in scope , the film assaults our senses with the sumptuous music , costumes , sets and story . with its rapid pacing , jump cuts , speed ups and slow downs , the film will leave you emotionally drained and exhilarated by the end , which does more with the " show must go on " than you could ever imagine . it is also a rare film that is such a crowd-pleaser that you're likely to hear , as we did , spontaneous applause during the movie . moulin rouge runs 2 : 10 . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , gave the film * * * . he had trouble with the intensity of the dying part but liked the music and the dancing . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	brrrrrr . better bring along your heavy coat to the claim since it's palpably cold . set in the sierra nevada mountains in the harsh winter of 1867 , the movie features knee-deep snow and blowing wind that sounds like a hungry coyote howling at the moon . the rustic town , as photographed in the warm , dark glow of kerosene lamps by alwin h . kuchler , feels completely authentic . only the price of rented passion seems a bit out of line . the base price isn't revealed , but the prostitutes charge $30 extra if the guys want to stay a little longer than normal . you do the math . that's a tidy sum . it being winterbottom's second hardy adaptation , i had really been looking forward to the claim . his first , jude , a fairly literal adaptation of hardy's " jude the obscure , " was on my best of the year list back in 1996 . although the claim's dramatic visuals surpass jude , in no other way is it comparable . jude had a rich , character-driven screenplay , but frank cottrell boyce's script for the claim leaves the images alone to tell the story . none of the characters are properly developed . the leads are merely sketched , and the supporting cast is almost completely ignored . an unrecognizable nastassja kinski , as daniel's sick wife is the most wasted of all . kinski is given little more to do than cough . although this event should be the tearful culmination of the tragedy , it leaves you completely dry eyed since there isn't a single character worth caring about in the claim . the claim is an impressive exercise in visual style and atmospherics . it is a shame that it isn't more than that . it is rated r for sexuality and for some language and violence . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	" question i've always wanted to ask , " she muses aloud , " what color is my wind ? " if you laughed at that joke or any of the other oscar jokes in the past decade , you probably have comedy writer bruce vilanch to thank . the word in hollywood is that no oscar or other celebration can happen these days unless they get bruce , hence the title of andrew j . kuehn's hilarious documentary . as fast paced as the best monologue , the movie flies by as laughter fills the theater . kuehn has just the right touch with the movie's mixture , helped enormously by vilanch who even looks and acts as funny as his classic comedy lines . looking like a muppet version of the pillsbury doughboy , his large economy-sized head holds two mops full of scraggly hair and fluffy beard . the director takes interviews in which stars like goldberg , billy crystal and robin williams ham it up as they reminisce with vilanch and mixes them with live examples of the routines he has crafted for them . part of the film concerns the preparation of the material . vilanch subscribes to 65 newspapers and magazines and is a voracious reader , always trolling for possible material . " there is no writing , only rewriting . " he shows us some of the script versions for one telecast with each printed on different colored paper . watching vilanch at work , you get a glimpse of true genius . " he's given more great lines to celebrities than any coke dealer , " nathan lane says with a grin . one of the clips in the documentary shows one such collaboration . his one-line acceptance speech was hysterically funny and typically vilanch : " i'm very sorry i didn't have to sleep around to win this award . " it is not rated but might be an r for language and sexual innuendo . it would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
0	screenplay : al franken . director : harold ramis . it is really as simple as that . we can only find evidence of a benevolent god in the fact that hans & franz the movie and coffee talk the movie were scrapped in development ( that is not a joke ) . not only is this latest " saturday night live " character spinoff incoherent and unfunny , its basic idea and tone are just appallingly wrong-headed . they had their moments , primarily because al franken is one of the few performers associated with snl in the last decade who doesn't appear to have had all his subtlety surgically removed ; indeed , his sing-song delivery is good for the film's few laughs . mostly , it's just deadly slow . what is _unintentionally_ funny about stuart saves his family is the movie-of-the-week melodrama of the smalley family segments . although there are a few flashbacks to stuart's youth which are played strictly for laughs ( unsuccessfully ) , the majority of the interactions are intended to be poignant or serious . this decision is baffling , because franken appears to have forgotten the premise behind the " daily affirmation " sketches . they were parodies of the touchy-feely self-help movement , deriving most of their humor from goofy over-reliance on new age mantras like stuart's ubiquitous " and that's . . . the schizoid combination of humorless comedy and misplaced sentimentality ( including a score by the ever-more-saccharine marc shaiman ) makes for a truly uncomfortable ride . it is clear that al franken had two basic choices when it came to making a stuart movie : keep stuart a caricature in an episodic story , or make him more real in an actual narrative . big mistake . i said franken had two basic choices . make that three : he could have chosen not to do the movie at all . _that_ would have been the smart choice . 
0	it is a highly atmospheric and , some would say , erotic tale of two sad and lonely people . the message of the film appears to be that we are trapped and life is hopeless . although the chinaman is filthy rich , only 31 years old , and handsome enough to be a fashion model , he has little confidence and looks so sad you think he is about slash his wrists at any moment . i am always a little sad . i'm like my mother . " actually , everyone in the movie seemed to suffer from major depression . in an attempt , i guess , to find meaning in their life , the two protagonists spend over half of the movie with their clothes off and most of this time is spent doing sex . the sex is certainly not erotic and is mainly exhausting . they don't seem to enjoy any of it and watching them do it is about as much fun as watching athletes doing one wind sprint after another to get in shape for a track meet . i saw the videotape version where scenes deleted so that could get an r rating were added back in . i suspect the movie was better in the released theatrical version . jane march , whose only other film was color of night , shows little acting ability . color of night was number one on my worst films of 1994 list , and she showed a lack of talent in that movie as well . she has to say one pedantic line after another , and overall , the narrator's part is just too wordy . director jean-jacques annaud has the actors pause frequently in their dialog so the audience can fully ponder the drivel they have just uttered . actually , the best part of the movie is some wonderful cinematography ( robert fraisse ) that has a sepia tone look to it . the film transports you to a long ago era and makes you feel as if you are there . now if you could just get rid of those actors and actresses populating the scenery , . . . it is rated r for non-stop sex and nudity . there is no violence . the film would be fine for most teenagers . although i can not recommend this depressing film , i did like some of the technical aspects so i am giving it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	if you thought air traffic controllers wouldn't be promising subjects for a comedy , you'd be right , at least based on pushing tin . but forget the marketing , maybe the film was meant to be a drama , not a comedy . regardless of its intentions , the resulting movie , while not bad , is neither particularly funny nor dramatic . i've seen the movie and still have no idea what the director was trying to do . it almost seems as if the creative energies ended after the film's admittedly strong casting was completed . glen charles's script , based on an article by darcy frey , doesn't have many ideas other than one good sight gag , which is done twice , and involves a bit of ridiculous bravado . the story's twists are predicable , and one of the best scenes is set up only to be aborted just as it is starting to work . if real new york air traffic controllers are anything like the guys in this movie , you may want to rethink your upcoming trip to the big apple . they spend their time horsing around , acting like overgrown kids playing an increasingly boring video game . third seems to be about average . these guys burn out wives like tires at a racetrack . thrown in the plot for no extra charge and not much reason is some juicy marital infidelity . after the affair -- or is it affairs ? -- the already charged dynamics between nick and russell take on even stranger dimensions . if the characters were either more genuine or more humorous , this part might have proved interesting . as it is , the movie just lies there without much happening until the last act , which contains several endings . too bad only one of them is satisfactory , and it's not the last one . is there a market for a comedy that isn't particularly funny or a drama that doesn't have much impact ? only time will tell , but this movie doesn't have much going for it other than the marquee names . pushing tin runs too long at 2 : 04 . it is rated r for some profanity , nudity and sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
2	the budgets of the two movies , much like their intentions , couldn't be more different . the 1994 action blockbuster was a major hollywood undertaking , with significant studio backing . black women were divided in opinion about the march -- some thought it was a great idea , others found it to be a " sexist , exclusionary " activity . get on the bus doesn't attempt to tell the story of the million man march -- that would be a monumental , epic undertaking . lee's primary objective is to reflect back and offer a uniquely personal perspective of that single day last october . this viewpoint , which ultimately transcends the movie's flaws , is one of the aspects that makes for a worthwhile two hours . unfortunately , many of the bus riders are just variations of stock characters . neither lee nor screenwriter reggie rock bythewood crafts more than one or two well-realized personalities . while it's true that many of get on the bus's men are sympathetic , that's more a function of good acting than of the uneven script . needless to say , there isn't enough screen time to develop these stories more than fitfully . some get better exposure than others -- most notably those of gary , the light-skinned cop ; jeremiah , the quiet man with a poignant past ; and the handcuffed father-and-son tandem . conversely , the struggle of the homosexuals to attain acceptance is handled in a superficial manner . the melodramatic ending , which includes a sermon on unity , is excessively manipulative . artificial plot devices don't divert our attention from the strong , heartfelt performances . what is occasionally distracting , however , is elliot davis' camerawork , which includes frequent changes in film stock and lighting levels . apparently , lee thinks this is artistic , but it's also intrusive . this kind of film making technique is fine for experimental and art features , but , for a drama , its pulls the viewer away from the characters , momentarily creating an unwanted awareness of the process that's telling the story . scenes like these , ripe with genuine emotion , are the most compelling reason to take this trip with director spike lee and his talented cast . -- ingmar bergman 
2	mpaa rating : r ( sexual situations , nudity , adult themes ) running time : 105 minutes . it's entirely possible that a film version of the end of the affair -- graham greene's novel of passion , obsession and faith -- could be made without getting into the explicit details of its protagonists' extra-marital exploits . and in fact it already has , in a weepy 1955 version starring deborah kerr and van johnson . some would no doubt argue that the more restrained approach has its merits , but there's something about this source material that demands an approach that couldn't be filmed in 1955 . i can't remember the last time a mainstream film featured as much intense , forthright sexuality -- of the groping , grinding , gasping variety -- as the end of the affair . and i can't remember the last time it would have been quite so thematically appropriate . neil jordan's approach to much of the end of the affair is in fact fairly restrained . michael nyman's string score pulses throughout the film , adding a layer of heightened drama , but the performances play against the music effectively . ralph fiennes' work may be too reminiscent of his character in the english patient , but it's right for the role , as is stephen rea's hangdog henry . though the repetition of those scenes gives the film a slightly lurching pace , it also shows how easy it is to misinterpret key moments in our lives . his even bigger risk pays off even more definitively . let viewers go in forewarned : the end of the affair is a steamy affair , the sex scenes a deft tightrope act between pure animal passion and intense emotion . the end of the affair circa 1999 combines the appeal of old-fashioned tragic romance with greene's ahead-of-his-time psychology of irrational desire ( whether temporal or spiritual ) . it may make you uncomfortable , but you can't deny its honesty . jordan does an impressive job of making the novel's philosophical musings solid cinema , retaining all the thematic weight without too much ponderous voice-over . there's also the ongoing pleasure of ian hart's sharp , understated work as the private detective who takes tremendous pride in his professionalism . and even when they no longer fill the screen , the end of the affair's scenes of illicit eroticism linger like a memory of addictive high . jordan does justice to greene's 1950s narrative by doing what the 1950s couldn't do -- showing the middle of an affair that made the end of the affair a tragedy . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	a bitter-sweet fantasy , in the form of a black comedy . this is the first film he's done that's not written by him , as it was scripted by john c . richards/james flamberg . it is another heartless stab by the director aimed at the heart of mankind , showing them at their stupidest and cruelest moments , one that tweaks the sensibilities about american pop culture and its whimsical effect on the population . it uses the ridiculous banal plot of a soap opera called 'a reason to love' and manages to get a story that runs parallel . this modern adult fairy tale , told in the style of the " wizard of oz , " is also set in kansas and has the heroine , ala dorothy , leaving that rational state for one of fantasy . the humor comes in how the characters actually fall for the fantasy they are spoon fed by tv . she never misses an episode and identifies solely with a nurse chloe , even knowing the nurse's lines by heart . it would take a suspension of disbelief to take in what ensued after the murder and not question it . the film has another gory murder scene , as it breaks the mood of fantasy and returns to a reality that is even more absurd than the fantasy world . a bloody shootout occurs and everything that can get straightened out does as a result of that . but it was not possible for me to believe anything about this tale , especially the purported sweet ending tried for . this tale was spiced with too much human depravity and insanity , making betty to be anything but another dorothy gale , but more like a crazy person or an idiot . i found this adult fairy tale to be one that was trapped in its own mixture of cynicism and delusions . the director could never quite decide on what he wanted betty to be like , so i was left with the impression that she was a cartoon-like character , not able to distinguish what was real or fantasy . i don't think the film has come up with some earth shattering things to say about pop culture , except to imply that if you want to be a moron and forego taste , then join the middle-brow masses and get absorbed in soap operas and forego any kind of art that makes you think for yourself . if you do , the director is saying , that is not the worst thing that can happen to you , it doesn't have to kill you . but it is never clear what labute thinks of this , that is , after smashing the middle-class dream of america as something that is drab . is he further saying that it is better to have some dream no matter how futile it is than no dream at all ? if his other two nihilistic films are examples of his thinking , then i think he is trying to bring that same message into this work , even though it might not have been intended in this script and doesn't exactly jive with the sweet ending tried for . i just think it seemed like old hat material recycled . what the film had going for it was some marvelous performances , especially by morgan freeman , who touched the soul of his complicated character , a wickedly carnal performance from chris rock , and from greg kinnear , who caught the subtlety needed for his role , to swing back and forth between tv actor and real character . as for ren ? e zellweger's performance , it was good , that is , as good as any on the soaps . 
2	while this film has a less ambitious agenda than ang lee's feature , both motion pictures share a common anchor : food . the obsessive attention given to the preparation of various sumptuous full- course dinners is enough to elicit groans from any viewer foolish enough to venture into the theater with an empty stomach . director tsui hark is as apt as lee when it comes to making the mouth water . the plot uses a variation of a standard hong kong action formula , although neither jackie chan nor chow yun fat would feel comfortable in this film . the director , who is best known for his action films , stages the chinese feast like one , with numerous fast edits and a story that buzzes along rapidly , allowing little time for reflection . there are lots of " battles " -- surprisingly engaging cooking contests where the " combatants " must prove that they can surpass their opponents when it comes to the color , taste , and presentation of a dish . of course , filming a cooking movie using the kung-fu model is bound to create a number of unconventionally amusing situations , and that's why the chinese feast has been fashioned as a comedy . often , the humor is absurd ( such as one man's battle with a 200-pound fish that escapes from the kitchen ) , but it's almost always funny . there's also a love story between the apprentice and the daughter of the man he works for , but it's a minor subplot that rarely captures the director's full attention . that doesn't prevent leslie cheung ( farewell my concubine ) and the enchanting anita yuen from forming an appealing couple whose natural chemistry adds to movie's charm . as a sidelight , the chinese feast provides a glimpse into a potentially-endangered culture . movies like the chinese feast may be among the last of their kind . the chinese feast is the director's twenty-fifth feature , with a broader appeal than anything he has previously attempted . the movie is atypical , enjoyable , and , unfortunately for american viewers , difficult to locate . given a chance , it's worth a look , but , as with eat drink man woman , you're warned to eat beforehand lest the closing credits find you dashing for the nearest chinese restaurant . 
2	the film is grandiose and colorfully shot , seeming much like a travelog . the original film had a more ironical and less standard ending than this version . but this is a highly appetizing film and a more attractive one to view . granger gives a commanding macho performance and the vistas are delightfully magnicent , which should be enough of a reason for seeing this version , also . 
2	screenplay : william nicholson . director : richard attenborough . if anthony hopkins and debra winger aren't careful , they're likely to knock themselves out of contention for academy award nominations by doing too much excellent work in one year . now the two talented actors are paired in richard attenborough's shadowlands , and the result is stunning . this moving , intelligent love story provides winger with her best role in a decade , and hopkins with a chance to add the second best male performance of 1993 to a resume which already includes the best . nicholson's play is a winner , and he has written a sparkling adaptation . the verbal sparring between lewis and joy is wonderful , the best this year not written by william shakespeare . it's the kind of love story hollywood just doesn't turn out all that often , a simple but affecting examination of the ability of love to transform , and to make life's pain bearable . lewis himself wrote about the experience in the philosophical work a grief observed , and that is the tone shadowlands adopts : introspective and restrained , yet still deeply felt . the score by john fenton is non-intrusive , and some of the film's most potent emotional moments are almost completely silent . it's an extremely deft piece of filmmaking by attenborough , a director best known for epics like gandhi but equally skilled at personal moments . and it doesn't hurt that his two leads give oscar-worthy performances . once again hopkins demonstrates the rare ability to act with his entire body , turning an aborted wave to a departing cab into a rich visual text . however , shadowlands would have come up short if joy had not been equally well-handled , and debra winger proves well up to the challenge . there is strength , intelligence , savage wit and deep emotion in her performance , and she somehow manages to steal scenes from one of the finest screen actors in the world . winger has been seen far too infrequently in recent years , but it would appear shadowlands is likely to correct that oversight . shadowlands was well on its way to being a " 10 " before it lost steam in the last half hour . still , shadowlands ranks among the best films of 1993 , artistic and profoundly emotional . 
0	jekyll and mr . there's also a none-too-subtle message about the dangers of letting the advancements of science outstrip corresponding ethics . moreau is a tale of great substance ; as re-invented by director john frankenheimer ( the manchurian candidate ) , it's disappointingly shallow and pointless . this is , in fact , the third time the h . g . wells story has been brought to the screen . moreau opened in theaters . arguably better than the original , this uses state-of-the-art makeup to augment an adventure that still has time to consider the philosophical implications of its subject matter . and , while it might have been possible to argue the merits of this version of the island of dr . moreau if it had offered something more than the others , the sad truth is that it offers much less . for , while the creatures look better than in even the 1977 version , the heart and soul of the story have been gutted , leaving behind a hollow , chaotic nightmare . somewhere under the debris left by a script credited to four screenwriters lie the remnants of wells' story , but the original tale is distorted and diluted not only by the need to " modernize " it , but the desire to emphasize visual effects and pyrotechnics over drama . almost immediately , edward becomes aware that some very strange things are taking place there . steeped in an atmosphere that grows more ominous and eerie with each scene , the first half hour promises far more than what the rest of the production delivers . the film's middle portion , while watchable , makes us aware that the script wasn't written for thinking viewers . it's during the concluding half hour , however , that the movie's house-of-cards storyline collapses . nothing much makes sense , and the climax seems to exist solely as an opportunity to show off a few reasonably impressive explosions . the acting varies from bad to awful . he's only on screen for about fifteen minutes , and , while there , his amazing girth is far more likely to capture our attention than his acting . to be fair , fairuza balk ( gas food lodging ) does a credible job of mixing kittenish and human qualities , but , although she creates the only sympathetic character in the entire film , she is underused . insultingly , frankenheimer concludes the movie with a short sermon about the fine line that separates man from beast . if the director actually wanted to get this point across , he should have worked it into the film rather than tacking it on as an afterthought . it is , after all , an integral aspect of the source material . that it has been so thoroughly excised from the main plot isn't the island of dr . moreau's only problem , but it's symptomatic of the flawed mindset that went into planning this occasionally incoherent and ultimately disappointing motion picture . 
1	i have mixed feelings about geronimo : an american legend . we had a lot of shots of geronimo staring christ-like into the lens for long periods without moving . wes studi who plays geronimo , and who was great in last of the mohicans , convinces you of geronimo's near godliness . the picture makes you feel how he has been wronged and since he is a warrior , murdering people is the natural thing that all warriors must do . i read an article where wes studi said he felt the movie tried too hard to be politically correct . if you want to see a really good movie about native americans , i recommend dances with wolves . last of the mohicans is also good albeit not in the same league as dances with wolves . so what was right about the show ? excellent performances by all of the actors . especially fascinating was wes studi and jason patric . good minor character roles were played by gene hackman and robert duvall . the cinematography by lloyd ahern was award winning quality with great open space shots and very effective close up shadow shots . given the violence , i am surprised it did not get an r . it would be fine for teenagers . overall , i think the good does outweigh the bad , and i give the show a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	roger moore , back for his fifth time as bond , dresses more casually in this outing . wearing a black turtleneck and coat , moore has a body that makes every wardrobe fit him like a glove . without a credible villain or a suitably sinister plot , the show drifts more than it excites . in the de rigueur chase sequence , the movie asks the question : are two fast motorbikes with on-board machine guns more than a match for bond as he escapes with just a pair of skis ? if you don't know the answer , this has to be your first bond movie . after a vague description about facial features , the exact image of the person in question begins to emerge in its monitor from a sketch so crude that it looks like kindergarten art . continuing in its tradition of good visuals , this time our bond travelogue takes us to the sun drenched greek islands with its bikini-clad women and twisting narrow streets . one of my favorite illogical aspects of this bond movie , and every one of them has plenty , is that with two flashlights 600 feet underwater bond and melina brightly illuminate everything in front and back of them . and sure to generate a few chuckles , the attacker's diving suit is an enormous white one that looks like the robot in the old television series , " lost in space . " so what does the device that cost so many lives look like ? a simple keyboard console that presumably contains some secret chips . how one misses goldfinger and the early bond films in which the gadgets had more style and imagination . perhaps this time he is completely dead , but you never know ; he might be resurrected yet again . such is the magic of motion pictures . for your eyes only runs 2 : 07 . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , thought the movie was just okay . he liked the ski chase and the underwater parts , but didn't like the way they showed a little blood in the movie . 
1	intimate relations is the latest in a long line of films that claims to have been inspired by real events . this is one of those instances , however , when i could care less whether or not the movie is based on a true story -- the knowledge certainly doesn't add anything to the viewing experience . nevertheless , for some reason , it seems important to first-time director philip goodhew that we recognize that at least the bare-bone facts of intimate relations are culled from the historical record . of far more interest than the " based on a true story " aspect is the film's central theme about the inherent hypocrisy of a " morally upright " ( or should that be " uptight " ) society . there has been and always will be a human preoccupation with sex . the only thing that changes with the years is how the culture deals with this basic concept . appearances meant everything , and people would go to extraordinary lengths to seem above moral reproach , even if the truth was much different . it's possible to see intimate relations as a dark comedy , but it's really more of an attack on the hypocritical attitudes that pervade society in every era . our society may claim to be more liberal and permissive in the '90s , but sexual secrets are still the most closely guarded , and , if they get into the open , have the greatest potential to damage . appearances still count for more than reality . plot-wise , intimate relations is nothing special . the film is too long and too repetitive -- we get the point well before the final , inevitable act . in many ways , this movie seems to be trying to recapture the spirit and feel of peter jackson's courageous , original heavenly creatures . indeed , there are some similarities -- the slightly exaggerated fashion with which '50s families are depicted , the way that simple domestic discord grows into something that's increasingly more ominous , and the manner in which obsession is shown to short-circuit all rational thought . intimate relations is a more pedestrian film , however . it lacks the artistry and the character depth that jackson brought to his breakthrough feature . it's a little chilling how easily her character switches from the british version of june cleaver ( who would rather " be dead than brazen " ) to the pathetic , sex-starved woman who crawls her way into howard's bed every night . newcomer laura sadler , who plays marjorie's teenage daughter , brings an appealing mix of innocence , eroticism , and cunning to the most complex role in the film . ultimately , i appreciated the ideas in intimate relations more than the presentation . things feel a little too over-familiar at times , as if i've seen them before , and it isn't hard to guess how the story will end ( consequently , it seems to take forever to get to that point ) . also , from time-to-time , the characters are designed more as tools to be used in service of goodhew's themes than as unique individuals . these elements conspire to weaken the film just enough that the mixture of drama , suspense , and dark comedy fails to gel properly . as a result , while intimate relations makes an important statement , it does so in a forum that often feels clunky and awkward . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
2	roman polanski sets up a tense atmosphere for this macabre tale , where every black-and-white shot is subjectively motivated by the deranged character played with quiet brilliance by catherine deneuve , until the final shot becomes one of objective reality . the only thing to be said in favor of these ghastly murders are that these men were not nice and were extremely pushy , wanting to use her and not caring that she didn't even show the slightest interest in them . this is an austere and timeless grand guignol work , one with little dialogue . this is the first of roman polansky's english language film's and his second feature ( the first was " knife in the water " -1962 ) , and this one might be his best work . it is eerie , unsettling and intelligently created , showing deneuve's emotional breakdown in an impactful way , by showing it in psychological terms of deterioration and not as a creation of special effects . this is a scary film , one of the best in the world of horror films . 
1	in many ways , it's hard to believe that the allison anders who burst onto the movie scene with gas food lodging , a compelling and compassionate look at the trials of single motherhood , is the same woman who penned and directed grace of my heart . don't misunderstand me -- grace isn't a bad movie , and its theme of female independence fits in with anders' other work , but this film doesn't take any chances . it's a safe , shallow motion picture that doesn't challenge the viewer . " we already have someone like you " is the popular refrain of refusal until joel millner ( john turturro ) hears one of her demos and falls in love -- not with her voice but with her songwriting talent . two hours isn't enough time to cover this much material , so anders frequently takes the easy way out by skimming over important scenes and fast-forwarding at awkward moments . by the time grace of my heart was over , i felt like i'd watched a filmed version of the cliffnotes edition rather than the real thing . the movie pays lip service to issues of discrimination ( both sexual and racial ) and female empowerment , but doesn't do much with either . they're background elements that are given cursory screen time only when they impact upon the main story . also , grace misses numerous opportunities to explore the main character's inner struggles . we see a quick snapshot of the wedding photo and a press clipping . by reducing this critical juncture in the main character's life to such cursory exposition , anders leaves us feeling cheated . then there's the final half-hour , which almost seems like it belongs in a different movie . for more than twenty minutes , grace's focus shifts from edna and her music to jay's deteriorating condition . this prolonged sequence of events is disruptive to the overall tone . actors are grace's most obvious strength . i've always thought of her as a capable performer , and she reinforces that belief here . john turturro is excellent , stealing scenes left and right as edna's boss ( i'm not sure if it's turturro's acting or his bizarre choice of wigs that captures our attention most forcefully ) . grace of my heart's songs are , without a doubt , the film's highlight . the soundtrack will probably sell , regardless of how the film does at the box office . grace of my heart possesses certain charms , but those hoping for an in-depth character study , a autopsy of the recording industry , or an exploration of songwriters' angst , will be disappointed . lightweight and undemanding , this grace is a little less than amazing . 
0	this low-budget , inane , cheesy , message sci-fier was of such poor quality that it was laughable and entertaining in a way goofy films sometimes can be . the clunky message of the film ( the way the film presents it is clunky ) , is that all the world's nations should be working for peace and not getting into the nuclear arms race . but the invaders act to offer proof . delivering such a warning during a hockey game took my mind off the puck , but is that the proper world stage to deliver such a message ! this is a classic in bad sci-fi b-movies . highly recommended for those who understand that a film doesn't have to be good to be enjoyable . i liked it . . . mainly for its banal dialogue delivered in robotic tones ! 
1	it's a slow-moving visual piece , setting a bleak moody atmosphere as it touches on voyeurism and misplaced love and obsessions and childhood abuse . the film's title comes from an elvis costello song of the same name . this ill-fated relationship comes to a sudden tragic culmination , which gives power to all the visual images leading up to this surprising climax . he's so obsessed that he can't make love to the more than willing smokey , as he burns inside from anger and alienation and frustration . but the story is too slight to make much inroads into those deep emotional directions , except the power in the film comes from the aftershocks that set in long after viewing the film . it mainly holds one's interest because the story is so oddly told and all the characters seem to have dark sides ready to burst open at any time . when they do , it seems to make sense . its best feature comes by way of polish cinematographer slawomir idziak , who uses his noted method of filtered filming to great advantage here to capture the angst of the characters and their dark love life . 
2	following the spectacular failure of mary shelly's frankenstein , kenneth branagh returned to england to make the kind of film he was most familiar with : a very british , low-budget production rooted deeply in the works of william shakespeare . echoing the farcical noises off , a midwinter's tale is a first-rate comedy that offers far more laughs ( all of them intentional ) than anything branagh has previously done . a midwinter's tale is loaded with allusions , both cinematic and literary . the most obvious are those from shakespeare , which understandably permeate the film . not only are the characters attempting to perform " hamlet " , but certain scenes from the play hit a little too close to home for several of them . branagh also simultaneously pays homage to and pokes fun at one of the most respected british filmmakers of all time : sir laurence olivier . elements of a midwinter's tale's presentation recall the work of woody allen , and the ensemble cast is the kind that allen usually gathers -- although branagh uses british names while allen typically assembles americans . with all of branagh's energy focused on directing ( he never appears on screen ) , a midwinter's tale is almost always on-target . unlike the failed comedy peter's friends , melodrama never threatens to overwhelm humor . branagh handles these themes deftly , treating each with enough respect to create emotional arcs for the characters , but making sure the audience knows he's fully aware of how overused the material is . since the text necessitates 24 roles , everyone is forced to play multiple parts . branagh has fun with his material , weaving a tale likely to generate guffaws even for those with little knowledge of the play upon which it is based . as the " hamlet " rehearsals get underway , murphy's law is in full effect . egos clash , laertes' funny accent becomes incomprehensible , rosencrantz/guildenstern gets sauced , and ophelia takes a nasty spill . as usual , the director has surrounded himself with a group of fine actors . no current film maker appears to love and understand shakespeare as well as branagh , and never has his affection for the bard been more apparent than here . this picture succeeds as a comedy , a satire , and even , to a certain extent , as a mild melodrama about choosing between a paycheck and the nourishment of the soul . a midwinter's tale is also a stylistic accomplishment . filmed in black-and-white , it's a movie of shadows and starkly contrasting images , all of which are used to their best effect . he's back on top in the independent arena with a midwinter's tale , a film that offers ninety- eight minutes of pure fun re-interpreting the phrase " the play's the thing . " 
1	this little soap opera of affairs on top of affairs is even more complicated because of rachel and philip's current situations . ( they manage clandestinely to fondle each other so much in the chair that viewers may come to think of the dental office in an entirely different way . ) ormond has gotten few good roles to display her talents other than sabrina . roth , on the other hand , plays basically the same evil character , and quite well , in most of his films ( hoodlum , pulp fiction , rob roy ) , but the best is his self-parody role in the woody allen musical everyone says i love you . given his long lack of female companionship , the fact that philip falls for someone as beautiful as rachel is completely believable , but that she would fall for the crude looking and acting philip is pretty hard to buy . badly miscast , roth is convincing as a prisoner but not as an irresistible lover . sure . not nearly creepy enough and only sporadically romantic , the film drifts along in fits and spurts . captives's director angela pope is much better in her subsequent film , the devastating hollow reed . it is rated r for a strong sex scene , profanity and violence and would be fine for older and mature teenagers . 
0	unless infused with some sort of unique energy , road pictures have become a worn-out genre , as proved by father hood . it's a mystery to me why films like this get made . do we really need to spend ninety minutes following the misadventures of two children and an adult ( who often displays less maturity than his offspring ) as they run around the country trying to get to know one another ? how many hundreds of movies and television shows have had the same plot ? there is little to relieve the tedium of this film , except an impressive performance by little-known actress sabrina lloyd . unfortunately , this is not the movie anyone wants to have it said that they gave their most memorable performance in . if i had cared about the characters , perhaps the unbelievable number of plot implausibilities wouldn't have bothered me as much , but no one in this film manages to grab more than a token amount of sympathy , especially not jack , who is an annoying , arrogant jerk . give patrick swayze credit ( if you want to call it that ) for playing this guy with the right amount of sleaze to get the audience to actively dislike him . the two kids have their moments . actually , i should say that lloyd's kelly has her moments . eddie , as played by brian bonsall , a young actor of limited appeal and talent , is pretty much a nonentity . the script tries too hard to manipulate the audience into sympathizing with them , and that immediately put me on guard . movies of substance rarely resort to such blatant emotional trickery . small roles are given to notables like diane ladd and michael ironside , but these two hardly have more than a few moments on screen . halle berry , who's given second billing behind swayze , doesn't have a role that's much more significant . it's an understatement to say that her talent is wasted . on top of all this , as if sitting through this movie isn't a bad enough experience in the first place , the film makers manage to steal away any possible tension through their structuring of the story . father hood comes complete with a social message that's as old as dickens' oliver twist . while i would support a movie that grapples with the problem sensitively and intelligently , this is not that film . it takes a good- guy , bad-guy approach to the situation and presents it from a decidedly singleminded viewpoint designed to stir the viewer's emotions , not make him or her think about the seriousness of what's going on . in fact , the low quality of father hood may actually sabotage the message it's trying to get across . that too was a road film featuring an older , somewhat callous guardian and the two children he was entrusted with . the similarities extend no further than plot structure and character background , because il ladro di bambini is an excellent movie , and viewing it makes the faults of father hood seem that much more glaring . there may not have been many like me , but i was actually impressed by patrick swayze's performance in city of joy . but with the release of this example of ugliness , i may have to admit to being mistaken . and " mistake " is a key word here , because that's exactly what this entire production is . 
1	with a title like g . i . jane , it would be easy to dismiss ridley scott's latest effort as exploitation fare . such a reaction , however , would do the picture an injustice . on the other hand , the movie lacks the thematic depth that the film makers would like to attribute to it . basically , this is a high-grade testosterone flick , which is ironic , considering that the lead actor is one of the 1990s' top female screen sex symbols , demi moore . while g . i . jane is admittedly effective at doing most of what it attempts , the problem lies in its lack of ambition . we've seen movies like this , about honor and courage in the military , since hollywood discovered the war genre . many of the trappings may be different , but , at its core , g . i . this film also owes more than a small debt to the acclaimed richard gere movie , an officer and a gentleman . anyone who has seen that picture , or any other like it ( and there are a lot out there ) , will recognize every perfunctory and formulaic turn in g . i . jane's script . it seems like more than just six years since director ridley scott made thelma and louise , and virtually another lifetime since he was responsible for the science fiction classics alien and blade runner . recently , scott's work has varied from moderately entertaining ( white squall ) to downright awful ( the ill-advised 1492 ) . g . i . jane is not likely to inflate his sinking reputation . in fact , this is the kind of generic output we have come to expect from his brother , tony . actually , if you strip away all of the details surrounding scott's most recent films , white squall and g . i . jane , you'll find that their naked plot skeletons look strikingly similar . both feature a small group of intense individuals enduring difficult physical and mental conditions . each offers a hard-bitten authority figure whose apparently cruel lessons turn out to be invaluable . ultimately , it's possible to find numerous parallels between white squall and g . i . jane , which may indicate that scott has an affinity for this sort of material . of course , it's impossible to discuss this movie without mentioning its " issue " : women's equality in the military . unfortunately , the film's shallow ( albeit sincere ) treatment of the subject is more obligatory than thorough or thoughtful . and , although g . i . jane avoids being overly preachy , it also doesn't offer any new or interesting insights , and doesn't come close to the level of intelligence displayed by last year's courage under fire in tackling a different aspect of the same issue . the movie's two main points , that there is no true equality in the military and that politicians will trade the moral high ground for political favors , are obvious . with a buff physique that has to be the result of an aggressive training regimen , demi moore has the body of an action heroine . unfortunately , the dramatic aspects of her performance are not impressive enough to eclipse her personality . truly gifted actors quickly shed their own image in favor of the character's . in this case , however , we're consistently aware that this is demi moore playing jordan o'neil , rather than a unique individual come to life on the screen . we never forget the actress long enough to lose ourselves in the character , and this awareness limits g . i . jane's potential impact . with g . i . jane , scott has crafted an action/drama of passable entertainment value , but there's little here to astound or amaze any but the most casual or naive viewer . the movie does a reasonable job of engrossing an audience for two hours -- it's the kind of high energy , fast-paced film where you can guiltlessly root for the heroine to persevere -- but that's all it succeeds at . g . i . jane is for those who prefer to cheer at the screen than be challenged by what's playing on it . 
2	male coming-of-age stories are a dime-a-dozen , but the same cannot be said for the female equivalent , especially when the story is told with intelligence and sensitivity . this makes ruby in paradise a rare and welcome change of pace . oddly enough , for something with this much insight , it's a surprise to note that it was written and directed by a man , victor nunez . by nunez' own admission , most movies present women as either objects to be " bought or [those that] get to be worshipped as perfect things that a man must work to become worthy of . " such typical hollywood treatment was not for the director of 1979's gal young 'un and 1985's adaptation of john d . macdonald's a flash of green . he wanted ruby to be something different and more substantial in a movie about " soul work . " nothing of a monumental nature happens in ruby in paradise , but the depth of the character study , coupled with nunez's talent for recognizing small details , makes for a surprisingly compelling motion picture . this story is so real that it's like watching the life of someone you lost touch with after high school . ashley judd's performance is worth more words than i have space for . her grasp of ruby is such that every nuance of the character is brought out , and the subtlety with which certain emotions are brought to the fore demands appreciation from a viewer . ms . judd repeatedly outacts and outshines her co-stars . there isn't a moment in this movie when judd's ruby is upstaged , and she's in every scene . interestingly enough , having also seen the piano , i've been privileged to see two strong female leads in one day , which is something of a rarity . while holly hunter will likely receive an academy award nomination for her performance , the same will not be true for ashley judd . it's a shame , but that's the way hollywood works . the toughness , intelligence , and resiliency are all there , and with the deft hand of nunez replacing that of austin , this makes ruby in paradise a surprisingly fresh and engrossing little film . 
1	like a pleasant-enough pilot for a new television series , the good-spirited movie goes down easily , albeit not memorably . the exceedingly attractive actors and actresses have well-endowed bodies and play successful upper middle class professionals . most scenes find them grinning from ear to ear , as they clearly enjoy their roles . although it may be authentic , the racial and sexist language may make some viewers feel uncomfortable . most of the movie has a light , breezy feel like its dreamy jazz music . in a movie that goes on a half-hour too long for a romantic comedy , these are among the scenes that are badly in need of trimming . eventually , harper's book introduces complications in the friends' camaraderie . by the end , the comedy turns serious as the wedding itself is put in jeopardy by certain revelations . the movie contains few missteps , but the director never manages to make the material compelling . i'm an extremely emotional sort when it comes to weddings , and i cry at the weddings of people whom i barely know . but at the big wedding finale in this picture , it was the cast crying , not me . it is rated r for language , sex , brief nudity and mild violence and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
2	welcome back to yesteryear . when one could use the word wholesome as a compliment without any satirical or negative connotations . at the height of the cold war , the kids are having fun watching hokey , science-fiction television shows at home and comically serious duck-and-cover films at school . " it's the greatest discovery since television , i guess , " he proudly declares . this lovable hunk of hardware is drawn as a homage to what we thought of robots back then . the head on his 100-foot body is a little too small , his mechanisms are more mechanical than electrical and he possesses certain special powers that even he doesn't seem to know about . most of all , he has these awesome sounds . once the gentle giant learns to speak , his precious , raspy voice sounds like it comes from deep within an empty , metal well . " something just ate our antenna . " yes , he's right . " while you're snoozing in your jammies , back in washington we're wide awake and worried , " the humorously supercilious kent lectures hogarth . the movie , which dares to spend more time with tenderness than slapstick , has a wonderfully touching ending . one could dream of a world in which there were more good kids' movies like this one -- ones with simple but endearing charms that warm the heart . motion pictures can and should be about more than special effects and gross humor . the iron giant is a start . the iron giant runs 1 : 26 . it is rated pg for a few cuss words -- as in " what the hell ? " -- that are clearly thrown in for the sole purpose of avoiding a g rating . only some of the scary images might briefly frighten the youngest viewers . in our packed audience , filled with kids of all ages , none seemed afraid . my son jeffrey , age 10 , thought it was a " really sweet movie " and gave it * * 1/2 . 
0	this is asking a lot to believe , and though it is possible , it would have been more possible to believe if quentin possessed some charm or something about him that would give us a clue that he was such a good catch , because he sure couldn't act , and since he is the focal point of all the attention , able to have his way with either men or women , we should also have felt this electricity generated on screen , instead of being forced fed by the director into believing something was happening when we couldn't see it . just what was supposed to be so compelling about this relationship , that would make it interesting ? i'm afraid i don't have the answer , since i can't find a thing about this relationship or this movie that kept me tuned into it , as i tended to drift out of the story somewhere in the middle , and just watched for the street scenes of paris in the background , which i found to be more pleasurable viewing than the movie itself , even more erotic than the unerotic love scenes between the lovers , and this is being said by a big fan of isabelle huppert , who is usually quite engaging in the various roles she has played during her long career , but here it is embarrassing for me to watch her vacuous performance . the only problem with this , is that we didn't see how good the sex was , we had to take the word of the actors that it was so good , as dialogue came out of their mouths that is totally forgetable or regretable or whatever , but their love was not passionate or credible . there is one line from the film that summed up how i really felt about what i was seeing , when at a fashion party for dominque's wealthy parisian fashion clients , quentin tells her , " seeing all these rich people makes me want to puke . " quentin must be psychic or something , because he was just regurgitating what i was thinking about the characters in this film . 
2	one of the all time fun pictures , with enough ingredients in it to please a wide variety of film fans . this was english actor claude rains' american movie debut and vehicle to future stardom , even though he is visible for probably less than 30 seconds of the film , and that comes only at the film's climax , who only got the role because boris karloff turned it down , afraid that the role wouldn't work for him because he wouldn't be seen : but rains' distinctive voice was all that was needed to bring credibility to the part he will always be remembered for . a film so perfectly and magically done , that is based on the h . g . wells novel , that is faithful to the book while adding its own flavor of campiness to the story , such as a wonderfully bizarre una o'connor , screaming her head off , as " the lion's head " inn's wife of the owner and hostess to the invisible man . a special film such as this one , brings unmitigated joy to those of the 20th century who like to sit in the dark and watch a world of illusions come across a screen , an activity that could have hardly been envisioned a couple of thousand years ago , and is looked upon , even today , with a strange reserve by those who don't take their movies that seriously , not understanding just how rewarding it is for those who find certain films so important to them , that it becomes an integral part of their life and they can see the same film over and over again and still derive great satisfaction in what they are seeing . as for me , i could have seen this film as many as twenty times already , starting when i was 12-years-old and first saw it on a tv program called " the million dollar movie , " and i still get a kick out of it and see something delightfully new in it with each viewing . it is especially fun to watch it with youngsters who have never seen it before and are generally unfamiliar with watching a movie in b/w , just to watch the reaction you get from these youngsters , is enough of a charge , as they are perhaps surprised at the fun they are having in watching such a creaky story and its outdated hollywood version of an old established english country village . it is a film like this one , that can lure you into becoming a bona fide film buff . he is dressed so you can't see one feature of him , as he is wrapped in facial bandages and wearing a hat and an overcoat , rubber gloves and sun goggles . the gifted director james whale knew what to do with this story , as his serious sounding but humorous caveat throughout the film is : there are certain things on earth man must not meddle in . dr . kemp is scared out-of-his wits , and the scene is filled with pathos , melodrama , and ironical wit , as griffin dresses in his unwilling guest's robe and pajama's and usual bandage disguise , and explains to him that his invisibilty is not perfect , after eating his food it could be seen for an hour afterwards , until it is fully digested , that in the cold air you could see his breath , in the rain he would look like a bubble , that he has trouble walking down stairs as an invisible man , because he hasn't quite gotten used to the fact that he is invisible and therefore is very cautious of the downward steps he takes . but how do you capture an invisible man ? the film comes to its splendid climax in the dreaded snow , with john fulton's ultra-modern , for its day , special effects , adding enormous visual support to the sci-fi story , having the invisible man's footprints remarkably appear in the snow . 
0	a fluff sitcom , romantic comedy , that is so charming that it eventually suffocates on all the charm it gives off . it is cleverly written and directed by irish playwright gerard sternbridge , who can't stop showing off how clever he is able to make his main character . the film was shot almost a year before " almost famous " made kate hudson into a celebrity , and a golden globe winner and oscar nominee for best supporting actress . in any case , kate does a flawless irish accent . he's a bullshit artist extraordinaire , with an easy manner about him , who cunningly knows how to reach out to women , which was mildly satisfactory for about 45 minutes of the film but after that became annoying . his gracious smile soon looked too smug and unbecoming , as the story had no particular meaning to it and i have seen too many recent films with studs in it to care how this silly story resolved itself . this film resolved itself in the cute way the story was heading , a 'feel good' film for those with an amoral bent and a belief that having sex with as many women as possible is the best thing one can do to improve relationships . for all the main characters there's a voice-over used to spell out their thoughts and also captions of their thoughts are at times flashed onscreen . scenes are also repeated so we get reactions from different individuals . the film's main purpose seems to be in showing what a likable rake adam is -- that he is willing to meet the needs of whomever he's with . he proves that having secrets in a relationship can add spice to it and make it an even more serene and lasting one . this is contrasted with adam being shown by the film's end as a pathological liar and an uncaring sexist . the film's image of him left me confused about what i was supposed to think of him . but my gut reaction is , i had a belly full of this guy long before the film ended and therefore found this vacuous story unsatisfying . it was like i was being asked to overlook adam's failings and be won over by his obviously trite charms . i wasn't and therefore didn't care for adam , or the film , or did i particularly care for any of the sisters . the only thing i liked in the film was the jaguar , and i didn't care how adam got it or what story he told about how he got it . that was supposed to be funny and show that he might have some problems with telling the truth . 
1	i saw johns at the press screening . it opens friday , january 31 . " i am an entertainer . i do not go in for violence . " johns is a frequently shocking , intensely real , and always poignant look at the lives of young hustlers . first time director and writer scott silver makes many of the mistakes of newcomers but , nevertheless , shows much promise with his troubling , touching , and sometimes humorous view of homeless kids . silver's background is as a documentarian , and it shows . from these ideas , acknowledged in the credits , he derived the script . but it gets worse . although there are some similarities to midnight cowboy , john and donner are much more clean-cut looking . although i did laugh a few times , mainly i felt sorry for these two kids . the songs have all the happiness that the prostitutes lack . ubach's performance is unbelievably strident . arguably the best performance is by an actor in the minuscule role of hotel registration desk clerk paul truman . richard kind takes what has all of the markings of being the most cliched part in the film and gives paul great warmth and compassion . i cannot say more or i would give away some of the most precious moments in the film , and poor john needs his few good times to preserve his dignity . much is wrong and infuriating with johns . the cinematography has an intentional low budget look in the constant outdoor scenes . the background is so overexposed that you feel like you will be blinded . although the film has a good narrative drive , it is too predictable . the ending seems obvious from the start . nevertheless , the characters are sympathetically drawn so that every time their predictable tragedies arise , they touch your heart . it is rated r . there is explicit sex , drug usage , strong profanity , sadomasochism , violence , and quite adult themes . i do not think they show is for kids , even teenagers , but if teenagers do go , they need to be quite mature . i give the film a thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 13 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	sometimes movies transcend their descriptions . surely there can't be much of interest in that , you might think as i certainly did . well , there's a lot , as it turns out . writer/director doris d ? rrie's enlightenment guaranteed ( erleuchtung garantiert ) is a sweet , funny and absolutely delightful film about brotherly love , the meaning of life and the importance of a sense of humor in the face of adversity . think of it as a low-key version of planes , trains & automobiles in which the humorous and touching journey is the reward . the story has a pervasive but subtle spirituality to it as the destination for these brothers turns out to be more than just a place on a map . ( actually , the lack of a good map is but one of many of their problems . ) two gifted , charming actors , uwe ochsenknecht and gustav-peter w ? hler play brothers uwe and gustav in warm and sympathetic performances . both of the guys are anal retentives . they haven't been together much since they were kids , so both look forward , albeit with some amount of trepidation , to their time abroad on their big adventure . the script does quite a credible job of making this both plausible and humorous . you'll be rooting for them as they get into more and more difficulties . and you'll be touched by their reactions to their trials and tribulations . uwe particularly likes to ridicule gustav with zen quotes like , " have patience with every day of your life . " " never give up , you wimp , " they tell one another . this long middle section of the movie is the best part , but the two leads are so strong that the entire film is mesmerizing . but it is the hard manual labor of cleaning already clean floors in order to clean one's heart that proves the most troublesome for the rotund gustav . this gentle , good-spirited comedy does much more than make you laugh . it makes you think as well about what really is important in life . and it makes you realize that life's journeys are fraught with difficulties and opportunities . you'll leave the theater with a smile on your face and perhaps a bit more optimistic view of life . enlightenment guaranteed runs 1 : 49 . it is not rated but might be an r for brief nudity and language . it would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	and , judging from the actual journey , if author anne rice has any complaints about the shoddy treatment her book got in this limp translation , they're probably well-justified . exit to eden is really two stories in one , which is this case means less , not more , for the money . the film exhibits a split personality in just about every area , from its views on sex down to its uncertainty about whether it wants to be a slapstick crime farce or an offbeat romance . taken alone , this particular storyline might have made an enjoyable motion picture . if he didn't want to face up to certain serious issues , director garry marshall could have done something similar to what he did with pretty woman . unfortunately , this is only half the plot--and the better half by far . there are a lot of attempts at slapstick in exit to eden , none of which work . in motion pictures , there are few lamer things than jokes that fall flat , and this movie is full of them . despite the presence of accomplished comics o'donnell and aykroyd , exit to eden is almost laughless . worse still , all the failed humor detracts from time that might better have been spent developing the relationship between elliot and lisa . rather than approaching his potentially-controversial subject matter with a degree of sensitivity and intelligence , marshall elects to adopt a porky's-like , exploitative attitude . exit to eden has all the ingredients of late-night cable fare . the film , which invites a decidedly-unfavorable comparison to john duigan's sirens , isn't so much repugnant as it is disappointing . it's " r " rating also raises questions about the basic inconsistency of the mpaa . other , non-mainstream films have gotten " nc-17 " s for a lot less . perhaps the association tempered their rating because they found exit to eden amusing . if so , they're probably the only ones . 
2	stanley kubrick's first big financed a film and first film with a major hollywood star . kirk douglas who liked the script , thinking it would give him a chance to work on a quality film with a strong social message , thereby getting his production company to back it . this antiwar film , one of the best ever made , much like renoir's masterpiece " the grand illusion , " does a great job of criticizing the role of the french military higher-ups in ww1 . the movie turns most of its attention to the action taking place in a military courtroom court-martial and the interplay between the officer's political manuevering for power . kubrick's masterpiece was more cynical and gritty than renoir's very poetic and humane indictment of war . one reason why this was so , was because it hit harder at those who were its subjects and as a result many country's reacted so vehemently as to officially oppose the film . it should also be pointed out , that the ambitious kubrick rewrote the original script to give the film a more traditional hollywood upbeat ending to it , much to kirk douglas's surprise and disapproval . kubrick , reportedly , wanted the film to be a box office success and was willing to forgo artistic integrity . the controversial ending might be termed a cop-out by many , while others found its sentimentalities quite appropriate and cynical enough . incidentally , in my opinion , the major flaw in paths of glory wasn't the taut script , which was lucid and hard-hitting , but it was in kirk douglas's egomaniacal performance ( though a strong performance and the best one in kirk's career ) . but , as forceful and necessary as kirk's performance was , it still allowed the film to become centered around him , rather than on the universality of the story unfolding in its very natural and engrossing way about the horrors , evils , and insanity of war . kubrick aimed for a critique both of war and of class systems . he accomplished this by pessimistically and cynically showing how the privilege class cares only about themselves and how its power is corrupting . we are told that world war i has dragged on for two years and that it became a stalemate of fortified trenches and heavy casualties . war but then broulard says that a promotion awaits , there will be consideration for another star . after dax says it is not possible to do , mireau says , " show me a patriot and i'll show you an honest man . " but mireau , not to be undone in the generosity of the moment , says let's make it 3 and have the 701st's three commanding officers choose one from each outfit . broulard says we better get a court-martial for them and make it legal . angrily , dax turns him down , as broulard looks at him incredulously , as if he were a fool , saying you really cared about saving those three men , you are an idealist . dax tells him to give the men a few minutes . the film is direct and powerful . it wouldn't have been banned for so long if it didn't hit home with its hard message . it is magnificently shot , as the trenches are frighteningly real and incomprehensible to understand until seen . kirk douglas is overwhelming in his stabilizing role , in my opinion too much so . but , nevertheless , his anger is warranted , as he is the emotional glue that holds the film together and gives humanity some measure for hope . though i came away from the film feeling no hope . i was cynical of everyone's motives , including dax's . to call him a hero , as the ending of the film implies by its crass sentimentality , as it shows him going back to the front , left me cold . adolphe menjou and george macready came through with outstanding performances , each one an incarnation of machiavellian evil . when on screen , their performances are like machine gun fire directed at you . there is much to chew on idea-wise , despite how simple the film might appear on first viewing it , and thereby lies its true greatness , as it seems to make a timeless argument against war ; and , as in most kubrick films , it is not dated , in fact , it seems to get better with age . 
1	we see the perpetually runny nose part , but the other part is only hinted at . margaret's fiery-red , wind-blown hair resembles a tumbleweed more than a coiffure . margaret's museum is a slice of life story featuring carter in one of her rare roles in a non-costume drama . margaret can barely keep her clothes on properly in the movie . carter , who has given a host of stunning performances in her career with the most recent being the sign of the dove , never adequately connects with her character . she gives margaret obvious idiosyncrasies but little depth . leigh and carter should have traded places with each doing the other film . neither gives a bad performance , but both try hard to do something the other does so naturally and beautifully . " what'll you do ? " " there isn't anything else . " ) the movie consists of little vignettes punctuated by hauntingly beautiful irish music plus the sound of neil's bagpipes , which margaret ridicules as sounding like a screeching cat . overall , the movie is in dire need of a more compelling and substantive story . neither teenager is believable . the story has a quirky ending which is really no more than a plot device to give the film its name . this eccentric movie would have worked much better as a short . with the padding removed , its paucity of ideas would not have seemed so limiting . as it is , it is a sweet , little picture with the emphasis on little -- a nice but uninvolving story of forlorn miners that you've heard many times before . it is rated r for profanity , brief nudity and sex . it is a mild r and would be fine teenagers . this movie was released theatrically in 1995 but never got a wide release in the united states . 
2	a poignant , original , psychological drama-comedy depicting life among a bunch of disorientated residents in vancouver . his schoolwork also suffers because of his deep sexual problem . he makes good use of leigh's improvisational way of shooting a film and has created a nifty contemporary film , with frighteningly real sex scenes and recognizable characters who have modern urban problems . the acting is subtle ( babz chula's performance is mesmorizing ) , while , the story , though not reliant on plot , is emotionally strong , showing how all the individuals are tangled up in knots . it was both a sad and funny picture , one that i would highly recommend for those who are not afraid of seeing some very graphic , 'dirty' sexual scenes , that fit the story to a tee . 
2	and that's the good news . this is the first directorial effort by peter mccarthy , producer of such films as repo man and tapeheads , and those credits should tell you all you need to know about the style and tone of floundering . it's a hilariously surreal examination of urban paranoia and hopelessness , filled with oddball characters , goofy stream-of-consciousness narrative and instantly quotable lines . floundering is told through a voiceover narration by john , but it's not so much about john as it is about the chaotic world around him . john is only the tour guide , but his observations are wonderfully off-the-wall : on the destruction in south central l . a . : " maybe we should leave it as a reminder . . . then [peter] ueberroth will turn it into a riot theme park . " if you ever walk into a room and find yourself instantly attracted to someone , get out of that room as fast as you can . " mccarthy's script is rich with such moments . unfortunately , it's also rich with heavy-handed left-wing moralizing which could easily turn off those with differing points of view . it's therefore very fortunate that so many of the other minor roles are so funny . the snapshots taken by his mental camera provide a bitingly satirical collage of urban life , but surprisingly mccarthy doesn't opt for utter cynicism . instead , he manages to balance black-humored sarcasm and social commentary with an ultimately optimistic message of personal responsibility . for those who enjoy their comedy with an edge and don't mind the occasional preaching , there's a real winner to be found in floundering . besides , how can you not love a film that ends with two guitarists , one black and one white , singing a marvelously off-key duet of " ( what's so funny 'bout ) peace , love and understanding ? " 
0	director : richard rush . director richard rush made his last film in 1980 , a sly thriller called the stunt man which was one of the year's critical favorites . and it looks like he may have to wait another fifteen years before anyone * lets * him direct again . soon , however , it appears that capa may also be the target of intended foul play . if it were not for my personal code of ethics , i would reveal every plot twist in color of night , since they are probably the only thing which will keep anyone watching until the bitter end . on the other hand , i'm not even sure it's necessary . color of night is so sledgehammer-subtle that it would surprise me if anyone couldn't figure out the identity of the killer in the first scene in which the individual appears . sadly , it's just one of the many ways they treat the audience like it's made up of morons . in one sequence , the killer uses a car to push another car off the top level of a parking garage , endowed with a supernatural foreknowledge of exactly where willis is going to be walking below . then there are more basic matters of stupidity , such as the condition from which the film takes its title , willis' inability to see red after the death of his patient . it has absolutely no bearing on the story , is sloppily presented through occasional perspective shots , and is just another example of the offensively simplistic psychology employed by the screenwriters . the main question is whether the true criminals are the writers or the actors . but who was the most abysmal ? the whole bunch should have their sag privileges suspended . color of night was the subject of a much-publicized battle with the mpaa over explicit sex scenes which threatened to earn it an nc-17 rating , but don't be duped . color of night is about as sexy as a lump of cold mashed potatoes , and less aesthetically pleasing . it's also extremely violent , particularly in the last fifteen minutes which includes some intensely unpleasant business with a nail gun . in 1980 richard rush clearly knew how to make a good movie . i guess directing isn't exactly like riding a bike . or in this case , like driving a garbage truck . 
0	screenplay : mira nair and helena kriel . producers : mira nair and lydia dean pilcher . director : mira nair . mpaa rating : r ( nudity , sexual situations , adult themes ) running time : 119 minutes . it is a frequent lament of critics that movies today seem to be churned out on conveyor belts , each new release looking and sounding just like the one which preceded it . rare is the film to appear on american screens which shows audiences a completely different world , a world like the 16th century indian kingdom which is the setting for kama sutra : a tale of love . in this case , however , i think i understand _why_ we have never seen this world before : apparently , it was the cradle of monotony . kama sutra is a ridiculously tedious study of indian power politics in which writer/director mira nair manages to take exotic locations , torture and plenty of sex and weave them into an uninvolving bore . for about ten minutes , the glorious production design of mark friedberg and the cinematography of declan quinn might allow you to forgive the plodding pace . relish those minutes as you would relish water in the desert . kama sutra rolls along like a block of granite , moving from scene to scene with a wearying lack of grace . nearly every character is one-dimensional , and that one dimension tends to be sullen and unlikeable ; indira varma at least has a certain fresh appeal , but the script turns her into a disney cartoon heroine trying to find something more from life ( though i don't imagine uncle walt would approve of that " something " being life in a harem ) . the relationships and conflicts between the characters don't provide much more worth caring about , displaying the kind of melodrama which would make aaron spelling blush . as kama sutra wanders into its second hour , you may find yourself at your watch every five minutes and feeling as though it were moving backwards . you'd think that a film named after an ancient book of sexual wisdom at least might generate some heat , and unfortunately you would be sadly mistaken . there is a fair amount of skin in kama sutra , and a few lengthy sex scenes , but without any real passion or connection developed between the characters nair's direction makes those scenes look like the soft-core porn of a playboy instructional video . even those scenes don't make sex seem as abstract and impersonal as the occasional snippets of kama sutran erotic philosophy dispensed by rasa devi . in this country , rasa devi holds forth on the mystical nature of sexuality like a cross between dr . ruth and yoda , except slightly taller . if someone from another culture were to learn from kama sutra , it is that a droning lecture on sex can be just as soporific as a droning lecture on any other subject . the most distressing thing about kama sutra is what a conventional story it turns out to be , its unique setting notwithstanding . peel away the fuzzy-focus scenes of toe kissing and back scratching and you have a predictable romantic four-some complicated by class , like a jane austen novel with saris . nair and co-scripter helena kriel seem so desperate to make kama sutra seem like a metaphor for something that they toss in a military sub-plot about intrigue to overthrow raj singh which gives the film an overtone of richard iii ; there is even a hunchback prince as a particular reminder . it's still not nearly enough to make kama sutra worth two hours of your life , even with the opportunity in the final moments to see a man executed by being stepped on by an elephant . if this is what passes for showing us new worlds in the movies , sign me up for another year of national geographic . 
1	warning : spoiler in next paragraph . what ray does very well is make this into a love story , one that is movingly real as it is not corny or filled with clich ? s . the dark , expressionist photography and the love between these two in such dark settings gives this very ordinary story a poetical elegance and makes it a memorable film . 
2	there is nothing that will make a hollywood marketing executive salivate like a current news story to which a new film can be linked , and if you remember the bounce the china syndrome got from the three mile island accident of 1979 , you'll understand why . when a seven-state power failure hit the american west on august 10th , the folks at gramercy must have done the mipos dance of joy -- five days later , i had press material for the blackout thriller the trigger effect mentioning the august 10th failure . it's hard to resist that kind of " torn-from-today's-headlines " marketing , but i hope they don't make the trigger effect look like a cheap knock-off by overdoing it , because it is nothing of the kind . this is a sharp and surprisingly effective thriller which makes up for a sluggish middle with an exceptional start and finish . it is a smart and subtle piece of film-making which underlines the main premise of the trigger effect : how fragile a foundation it is on which civilization is based . it is amazing how much more obvious the ineptitude of the island of dr . moreau becomes when compared to a film which takes a very similar theme -- what separates us from animals -- and does it so much better . he tries to connect those troubles to the film's central themes -- annie has a problem respecting the mild-mannered matt until he steals medicine for the baby -- and he is successful for a little while . whatever point koepp might have been trying to make about the attraction of " animal behavior " gets muddled in the house-bound middle third of the trigger effect . koepp is not a genius at creating shaded characters ( remember , he _did_ write jurassic park and mission : impossible ) , but he demonstrates an impressive talent for building tension and for pacing a thriller to keep his audience involved . it is also noteworthy that koepp never makes a point of explaining what caused the blackout , because that would have been sending the wrong message about what mattered about this story . the trigger effect is a disturbing and all-too-real tale which makes the ironic observation that we have come to depend on technology for our humanity , and if a little creative marketing will bring people out to see it , then so be it . 
1	i can't imagine a thoughtful movie lover watching one without realizing that director tony barbieri -- a first-time filmmaker -- is in complete command of visual storytelling . he does things veteran directors by the score would shun out of simple fear , though they are likely the best choices for the moment . he embraces a distinctive rhythm , and lets his camera say things his characters can't say . this is neither a flash-for-flash's-sake technical show-off , nor a man content to point his lens at people while they exchange glib dialogue . one is a coming-out party for a director to watch . i'd love to report that barbieri's eye and his narrative restraint make one a must-see film , but it's possible to take narrative restraint to an extreme . the first thing anyone is likely to notice about one is that it doesn't look or move like a typical film . barbieri tells the story of these lingering characters in lingering takes , with performances pitched at a level of quiet resignation . his preferred composition places his camera outside a doorway , with only one of the two characters involved in the scene visible at any time . it's a device he uses perhaps to excess , but he captures effectively the tension between people occupying the same room while living in different worlds . barbieri even makes the subtly audacious choice in one scene to slowly blur the characters in a scene , pulling the focus to an object in the foreground so gradually you may just think your eyes are playing tricks on you . at virtually every moment , i was fascinated by the prospect of what barbieri might do next . the narrative itself , unfortunately , is not nearly so fascinating . it's not that the characters are not compelling ; barbieri and cairns have crafted a pair of enigmatic , lived-in roles in charlie and nick . one simply suffers from a near-crippling case of " the muteds . " virtually every emotion and every confrontation isn't just writ small , it's writ to the point that you need a microscope to see it . barbieri may have been aiming for a style that feels real , but he seems scared to death of anything that could be perceived as an emotional high point . he observes and observes and observes -- skillfully , to be sure , but from such a distance that the characters threaten to disappear at any moment . in his zeal to make one feel real , barbieri doesn't allow it to feel at all . even with such a mega-subdued story , one is still strangely watchable . the naturalistic performances are good ; the arc of the two main characters consistently interesting . but it's really about barbieri's knack for using his camera to create a mood . there are many skills that make up a great director : facility with actors , pacing , and yes , setting up the right shot for the right moment . i can't wait for the film he makes when he masters the other two . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	actually the story is nothing more than a thin veneer and a poor one at that over a movie to show off the martial arts talents of jackie chan . now , when you have someone as athletically gifted as chan , viewing his skills in even a ridiculous film is not such a bad idea . he actually does all of his own stunts , and you are likely to sit there and go " oh my god " through most of the show . this guy is physically incredible plus he is handsome and as sweet as can be . that he could shine through this miserable show is certainly a tribute to his considerable skills which are not overrated . i have been told that he has been in much better movies which is certainly plausible , but this is the only movie of his that i have ever seen . as soon as i got in the theater , i sensed the movie was going to be different ; certainly the clientele was different . the audience was mainly teenagers in the baggy clothes that are popular these days . they thought talking to the screen in loud voices was cool . before the feature started i saw trailers for movies of the type i did not know existed . very low budget action films that i had never heard of as well as what used to be called black exploitation movies . and so on and so forth , ad nauseam . the silly script by edgar tang and fibe ma is full of lines that make little sense or are extremely trite , but hey , remember you are here to see chan's action , nothing more and nothing less , and action there is aplenty . there is nothing this guy can't do . actually the best part of the film is chan's demeanor . he looks like a friend of mine named kerman , but chan smiles more than any two people . he looks so sweet and innocent that he might melt if it rains , and yet he has more resilience than superman . quite a contrast between his actions and his deceptive looking naivete and little boy smile . okay , granted that this is an action flick , but why does the dialog have to be so bad , and why couldn't the director ( stanley tong ) find at least one other interesting actor or actress to work with chan ? can't you come down ? " chan is full of simple wisdom like , " don't let the situation change you . change it , " and " if you got the guts , drop the gun , " but mainly he shuts up , smiles , and fights . the sets are imaginative with the bad guys carrying baseball bats but driving something like a golf cart with flashing neon lights . one of the best scenes has an entire building pulled down by the " badest " of the bad guys . the cinematography ( jingle ma ) uses dramatic colors with bold uses of bright purples , pinks , reds , and blues . blood is in most scenes , and the gore content is extremely high . the show is full of pain , and chan gets more than just about anybody , but he keeps on smiling . there is no nudity or sex , but there is some dope smoking and bad language . it is correctly rated r for the massive amount of violence . granted the picture is kind of campy , but it is also very bloody . this show will probably be okay for most teenagers , but the idea of taking kids under 13 to it is just plain stupid . i really liked watching chan's abilities , but after the first thirty minutes , his welcome wore out . i would have liked the show better as a half hour documentary on stunts . as it is , i can not recommend it , but i am giving it * * for an amazing piece of work by chan . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	by trying to satisfy every kind of viewer , it's possible that sphere may end up pleasing no one . action lovers will be bored by what they will see as an interminably boring setup . audience members who crave more intellectual fare will be disgusted by the film's sudden collapse into mindless storytelling and by the ending , which is an insulting cop-out . somewhere out there , maybe there's a small cadre of film-goers who will appreciate sphere's dubious charms , but i'm not among them . i sincerely hope the novel is better than the movie ( i no longer read anything by either michael crichton or john grisham ) , because if the finished motion picture product is anything to go by , it's hard to understand why the rights were optioned . sphere is the kind of first- class mess that only a top-line director with an a-list cast can create . with expectations high ( and how could they not be , considering that another barry levinson/dustin hoffman collaboration , the excellent wag the dog , is still playing in theaters ? ) , something this bad can't help but look even worse . the last time a big-name , big-budget film displayed this level of ineptitude was last year's batman & robin , and everyone knows how that movie was received . sphere starts out a little like an amalgamation of contact and james cameron's the abyss , but , somewhere along the way , it collapses into the cellar with another recent science fiction effort , event horizon . science and philosophy , which are used to good effect during sphere's first hour , give way to mindless , confusing action sequences . intelligent writing , which is evident early on , is replaced by hackneyed drivel . special effects take over as the plotline devolves into incoherent silliness . but all that is just in preparation for the ending , which is inexcusably awful . this is the time-honored deus ex machina device used to its worst effect . i left the theater feeling cheated by the way crichton and his screenwriters had chosen to end the film . there is some promise , but it's all in the setup . for a while , sphere had me fooled into thinking it was going to take an astute approach to the man-meets-alien situation . the overall scenario is not without promise and several plot twists ( such as the revelation that the enormous craft is actually an american space ship , apparently from the future ) offer intriguing possibilities . this might be acceptable if director levinson generated some legitimate tension , but , instead , he relies on loud , overbearing music , strange camera angles , and quick cuts to make things " exciting . " additionally , because none of the characters are well-formed ( a common failing in anything penned by crichton , who's more interested in technology than people ) , viewers don't develop much of a rooting interest . it makes sitting through sphere a frustrating and pointless experience . what about that a-list cast ? not surprisingly , the most energetic performance is given by samuel l . jackson , but his harry isn't a person ; he's a walking plot device spouting occasionally-witty dialogue . dustin hoffman isn't lively or particularly good -- it's ironic that this , which may be his worst work in a decade , has arrived in theaters on the heels of his best actor nomination ( for wag the dog ) . their characters exhibit little evidence of emotion ; automatons would have been as effective . then there's queen latifa , who , despite getting fifth billing in the credits ( ahead of liev schreiber , who boasts at least quadruple her screen time ) , has less than a handful of lines and almost nothing to do other than inflate the body count . i like to think that levinson and hoffman , recognizing how uninspired this movie was likely to be , chose to make wag the dog as a sort of penance ( the low-budget picture was filmed during sphere's lengthy pre-production phase ) . if that's the case , forgiveness is granted . i'm less inclined to look favorably upon crichton , although he has a few enjoyable titles on his resume ( jurassic park and the levinson-directed disclosure come to mind ) . he was a willing participant in a creative travesty . no wonder sphere is being released in february , in the midst of the early year's cinematic wasteland . it deserves no better than to get sunk by the unstoppable titanic , which should plow sphere under on its way to a ninth-consecutive weekend atop the box office heap . - ingmar bergman 
1	[note : some of the content in this review may be considered spoilers] the risk , of course , is that knowing the outcome way ahead of time might somehow reduce its emotional impact . how effective can a tear-jerker be if you're waiting for them to be jerked ? one true thing deftly sidesteps that problem -- at least for half its running time -- by being nothing at all like a conventional tear-jerker . at its core , it tells a story of one of adulthood's most daunting tasks : coming to terms with the humanity of one's parents . as long as the focus remains on those three characters and their relationships , one true thing is solid film-making . meryl streep delivers yet another winning performance , finding the warmth and compassion in kate without ever turning her into a cartoon . the small mannerisms in her attempts to connect with ellen -- an almost imperceptible rejected touch , hidden disappointment at her daughter's dismissals of her -- are the stuff great screen acting is made of . the guldens are a thoroughly recognizable modern family , their interactions real enough to evoke emotion and sympathy without resorting to sobs or recriminations . there's something particularly wrenching about watching people who love each other trying to like each other . alas , the plot device which brought ellen back home soon rears its head and pulls one true thing in the wrong direction . it's not that the cancer storyline is mawkish or overly manipulative . indeed , franklin's direction and streep's performance avoid most of the traps which can turn such stories into melodrama . once the big c starts taking over the proceedings , the nuances of character which had made one true thing such compelling viewing begin to lose their force . conversations become confrontations ; the words sound progressively more scripted and less genuine . a tighter , leaner screenplay might have been able to keep ellen's journey of discover squarely at the center of one true thing . there's only one true thing which makes one true thing glow with realism , and that's the struggle of parents and their adult children to deal with each other as adults , as equals , as fellow human beings . that's the reason it was so wise to remove the live-or-die suspense from a story that's not about who will live or die . that's also the reason it was so disappointing to watch the film linger on a foregone conclusion . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	the mummy returns , again directed by stephen sommers , is a film with a complex . it's a relentless movie that seems in constant fear that if it ever slows down for a minute the entire audience will walk out . rarely pausing to smell the flowers or to provide the requisite motivation and background , the confusing story scurries around like the thousands of scorpions that take the place of indiana jones's snakes . and speaking of indiana jones , the movie wants badly to morph into an indiana jones-type franchise , a movie it mimics constantly . it also borrows liberally from the fight sequences of star wars episode i - the phantom menace and the creatures from gremlins . gone is the campy charm from the previous mummy . instead , we have lots of nifty computer generated effects and warriors and non-stop action . this is the perfect movie for 12-year-old boys , since most have grown too sophisticated for saturday morning cartoon mayhem . this time weisz gets many opportunities to flex her muscles , and she turns out to be a surprisingly credible action star . arnold vosloo again plays the mummy im-ho-tep . not content with a single villain , the sequel adds wwf's the rock playing the scorpion king , im-ho-tep's competition . what seems to never end is the movie itself . i lost count of the number of " endings " that were merely preludes to other fight sequences . as a display of computer generated images , the movie does dazzle and impress . it can also be imaginative with a jules verne inspired boat/dirigible being the most memorable . " you know , " rick confesses , " a couple of years ago , this would have seemed really strange to me . " that's the problem with the sequel . we've seen it all before . the only idea that the director had for the sequel was " more . " more special effects and lots more fighting . its target audience will undoubtedly love it . it is rated pg-13 for adventure action and violence and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	from russia with love , along with its successor , goldfinger , represents bond at his best . although the series has run for more than thirty years with seventeen " official " entries , it has yet to better , or even equal , what it achieved in 1963-1964 with the release of these two films . by combining solid storylines , tightly-paced action sequences , memorable villains , and sean connery in top form , russia and goldfinger mark the cinematic apex for ian fleming's 007 . the elements of from russia with love move the movie closer to the recognizable " bond formula " than was the case for its predecessor , dr . no . here , the action scenes are more numerous and generate added tension , the title sequence has a familiar flavor , john barry's distinctive score replaces the workmanlike music of monty norman , q makes his first appearance , and connery tones up 007's sophistication while downplaying his cold-bloodedness . in fact , they want something significantly less ambitious : a russian decoding device . the plot is suitably complicated ( but not so convoluted that the viewer will get lost ) , and , even though 007 suspects a trap , the lure of a beautiful woman and a valuable espionage coup is too enticing to resist . no , has mastered his character by this outing . he acts the role with confidence and familiarity , easily establishing his reputation as the inimitable 007 . from russia with love is among the most tightly-plotted of all the bond films , and , as a result , is one of the shortest . it moves briskly , blending intrigue , romance , and action into an immensely satisfying whole . russia exudes style , as typified by a fight in a gypsy camp where bond offhandedly dispatches rogues to the strains of john barry's " 007 theme " . this movie has several such memorable moments , including an inventively choreographed fight sequence with bond and grant going at it in the confined space of two train compartments . standing at the pinnacle of the series , from russia with love shows how good a bond film can be when all the ingredients mesh . this movie isn't just a fun popcorn-munching action adventure flick ; it's a good motion picture by any standards . 
1	after all , the movie isn't titled bricks in the box . confirming jerry's fears , doug comes back with some frightening demands . from there , it's one twist and turn after another . the performances by the three guys are quite good , but the story suffers from having been told so often . one key revelation is too easily guessed , and the movie has trouble with its last act . the final twist , however , is devilishly fun . it is not rated but would be an r for violence and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
0	gerard depardieu's interpretation of cyrano de bergerac was a definitive character in modern cinema , not to mention a jewel in the crown of his career . for some odd reason , it just doesn't have the same impact . admittedly , this is an unusual premise for a comedy , and my father the hero sadly fails to take advantage of the possibilities . instead of going for outright zaniness , the film attempts to stay within the bounds of " good taste " and family values ( in spite of the obvious oedipal inklings ) , which not only dilutes the humor but results in an unwatchable climax involving a water rescue . there are some funny moments , such as andre singing " thank heaven for little girls " to a crowd of shocked onlookers , but there aren't enough laughs to justify the rest of this lame production . mr . depardieu does the kind of job one might expect from a respected actor thrown into a stupid movie . he's fine , but the script doesn't give him much opportunity to show his range . no one is likely to feel a great upsurge of sympathy for nicole during those moments . there is a big-name , surprise cameo in my father the hero . the appearance of this person is perhaps the single reason to sit through the entire movie . while the face isn't shown until the last scene , it's possible for those viewers with discerning ears to determine the identity very early . i won't whose career has been blemished ( although they were smart enough to keep their name out of the credits ) , but suffice it to say that few would expect a performer of this caliber to be slumming . then again , one hardly anticipates gerard depardieu to be a party to such rubbish , either . i won't dwell overmuch on the numerous implausibilities that occur during the course of my father the hero . this is , after all , a comedy , and the rules of reality are often bent in the name of humor . too bad the results aren't more impressive . however , it is worth making note of the absolute stupidity of ben , who swallows every lie without a moment's incredulity . nevertheless , the greatest flaw in my father the hero isn't the feeble comedy , the limp characterization , or the mediocre acting . instead , it's the feeling of unease that pervades the first forty-five minutes as nicole and andre clash while the film tries unsuccessfully to make light of their dysfunctional relationship . there are serious issues bubbling away here that the movie doesn't know how to properly address , attempting instead to turn them into fodder for humor . lighthearted motion pictures should never cause discomfort , but this one does . it's easy to understand how one could be fooled into thinking that my father the hero might be worth a trip to the theater . after all , the trailers contain a few funny moments , there's some potential to the premise , and gerard depardieu lends an aura of respectability . unfortunately , all of this means very little . 
0	it takes too much of a suspension of reality to believe in this outlandish plot : the devil is in our heads and was placed there by ordinary contact with others ( it spreads like germs do ) , even though it is played with zeal and candor by denzel washington , who is the squeaky-clean super detective john hobbes . the film is basically a horror film teaser , trying to say something about azazel that it really can't say without sounding ridiculous . there is also heavy use of fuzzy camera images by the cinematographer to indicate that the devil was being photographed from his point of view . these shots of the devil's viewpoint were overworked into the script to the point of overkill . the film worked only on a superficial level , as light entertainment and should be given credit for , at least , attempting to have a literate script . it is basically an escapist film , that failed to build-up tension as the story went on . indeed , by the film's last scene , the story waned in interest , proving mosly that time wasn't on its side . thusly , we have all been duly prepped for the supernatural part of the story to follow . these scenes have a good feel to them as they are grounded in reality and capture the feel of the detective world hobbes inhabits . ms . milano , who conveniently happens to be a professor of theology , tells hobbes , " if you value your life , if there's even one human being you care about , walk away from this case . " by this time , the story lost its base of reality . the evil spirit that couldn't die moves from person to person , and there is a chase scene in a crowd where the possessed pursuer could be anyone , which was exciting to watch , but added little to the meaning of the story . denzel's noir-like voiceover seemed artificial , an imitation of how a real noir film operates . he was also not convincing as a noir protagonist , he seemed more like a cop who was in a horror movie but might have been better off being in a straight movie about a cop being framed by corrupt cops . the premise of the occult tale was too silly to take seriously . but the film plodded on , getting more ridiculous by the minute , until it ended on a note of surprise , in the twisted manner one expected a film like this to end on . 
1	trials and questions of guilt and innocence are nothing new , but guilty as sin has a few twists that give this film a different slant than many other courtroom thriller/dramas . limited though it is , the strength of this picture lies not in a tense verbal jousting match between prosecuting and defense attorneys , because there isn't one , nor is it to be found in the " did he do it/didn't he " theme , since the truth is revealed relatively early . much of the story , while admittedly overplotted , is cleverly-conceived and fun to watch . that's what makes the ending such a colossal disappointment . often , the final act of a film has little impact on the overall quality of the product . there are a number of good films that have weak conclusions , and a few horrible movies that surprise with unexpectedly-solid wrap-ups . guilty as sin , however , is an example of how an ending can ruin the entire picture . without revealing anything plot-wise , let me simply state the final moments lead to an inept and feeble letdown . it's almost as if someone different was brought in to do the writing . what's worse is that it's easy to construct scenarios that would have made a fitting conclusion to an otherwise-intriguing and entertaining film . while the end of guilty as sin is by far the film's most grievous fault , it is by no means the only sour point . some of the dialogue could have used a re-write or two . there are a number of lines that are unintentionally funny , and this is a bad sign for a movie trying to develop tension . fortunately , he doesn't have a large role . there are scenes when she does an excellent job , but an equal number when she is amateurish , stilted , or unconvincing . strong emotion appears to be something that she has difficulty portraying effectively . he plays the role to the hilt , pulling out all the stops and more than occasionally overacting . what he does is perfect for the movie , and immensely fun to watch ( it also helps to erase the memory of an execrable performance in born yesterday ) . there aren't many movies when i find myself sympathizing with the villain , but this is among the exceptions , johnson's acting putting me solidly in greenhill's corner . oddly enough , another recent example of this occurred when i rooted for demornay's paige in the hand that rocks the cradle . comparisons can be made to jagged edge , but most of the similarities are superficial . aside from edge being a better-crafted piece of entertainment , there's a lot to differentiate the two . guilty as sin will not win any awards for realism , but as escapism it's fine--until the ending , that is . it's disappointing and amazing how a few ill-conceived pages of script can shatter what might otherwise have been a shallow-but-enjoyable thriller . what a waste . 
1	the blarney's back in aileen ritchie's irish comedy , the closer you get . actually , neither the men nor the women of the village look exactly like prizes . needless to say -- you guessed it -- they don't show up . as one of the parishioners points out to him , he has performed lots of funerals but not a single marriage . the admittedly good-spirited story rambles like a guy telling a long joke that doesn't have a punch line . as you watch the film , you're likely to feel that you've seen it all before but that it was better last time . the predictable message of the movie is straight from the wizard of oz : " there's no place like home . " it is rated pg-13 for brief language and some sexual material and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
2	screenplay/director : jeremy leven . once upon a time , marlon brando was considered by many to be the best american actor in film . brando has been on the big screen only a handful of times in the last twenty years , so the myth has transcended the actor . that is a shame , because not only can the man still act , he has shown a great sense of humor about himself . as writer , he has crafted a screenplay full of instantly quotable lines . but as clever a script as he has at his disposal , it is one of leven's choices as a director which makes it something special . while the narrated flashbacks of don juan's life are given a surreal tinge both by the nature of the subjects and don juan's florid description , the scenes involving interactions between other characters are almost hyper-real . the dialogue is simple , with lines frequently overlapping , and the camera is usually stationary . leven also coaxes two superb performances out of his lead actors . it is a light and very funny performance , matched and perhaps surpassed by johnny depp . he works so well , in fact , that several scenes between brando and dunaway probably ended up on the cutting room floor to allow depp's character more screen time . that's something of a shame , because the film is really about how mickler changes , and how those changes re-energize his marriage , and dunaway is too good to be so under-used . however , it is quibbling to fault don juan de marco for what isn't on the screen , when what is on the screen is so appealing . sweet , funny and unapologetically upbeat , don juan de marco is a perfect breezy spring entertainment . 
1	screenplay : tamara jenkins . director : tamara jenkins . mpaa rating : r ( adult themes , nudity , sexual situations , profanity ) running time : 91 minutes . sometimes i just want to shake a film-maker who doesn't seem to understand the strengths of her own story . the mid-70s setting at first seems fairly arbitrary , a token attempt at period color , but eventually the two main characters deepen the resonance of the time . that relationship forms the foundation for a solid story where the laughs could have come from simple character interaction . there's nothing faintly interesting or real about rita or her problems ; they're like the shenanigans of a wacky relative on a television sit-com . every scene with tomei is an over-the-top distraction , turning a low-key character study into forced farce . it's not as though jenkins needed to pad the running time because there wasn't anything more substantial with which to fill it . there's enough going on in that slightly radioactive nuclear famliy to fill a feature film without bringing in crazy cousin rita . slums of beverly hills draws you in with some sensitive observations about a family trying to cope with a profound generation gap , as well as with a breakout performance by the unconventionally fetching lyonne . then , it starts pushing you away with gratuitous eccentricity . i wish jenkins had showed more faith in murray and vivian . like the abramowitzes themselves , she doesn't seem to know how good she really has it . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	if you stay till the end of this review , i'll tell you a unique experience i shared with her . first , i need your help . as i was counting up the cars being killed in metro , i began to wonder : exactly how many wrecks does it take to impress today's jaded audiences ? certainly half a dozen are not enough , but will a full dozen suffice ? more to the point , at what count does the number become so ridiculous that the whole exercise becomes little more than a bad parody of a demolition derby ? whatever the number is , metro exceeded it . did you enjoy your holiday turkey ? would you have liked it more if you had eaten the whole turkey at once ? let me confess that i found parts of metro entertaining in spite of all of its failings , but tv director thomas carter should return to the medium he knows best . here , he subjugates his movie's best parts to unoriginal , albeit well executed , stunt work . the movie opens promisingly . through a combination of bravado and intelligence , scott gets all of the hostages out alive . at this point in the film i was optimistic about its quality . feldman's forte is choreographing car crashes . unfortunately , every time their romance begins to get interesting and believable , the director yells " cut , " and orders the stuntmen back on the set . murphy plays his character with more compassion that i thought possible for him so the constantly truncated romance is frustrating to watch . i hate it when shows use subplots merely to titillate . scott's habit keeps sidelining the main part of the movie so he can go watch the ponies . this " old pro trains the new hot shot " idea has been done a hundred times before , and metro does nothing new with it . in addition to the excessive reliance on action to carry the movie , there is a problem with the villain . the story would have us believe that he is one of the kill-everyone-in-his-path style criminals , but wincott's lack of passion in the role makes him rarely convincing . for reasons that escape me , the movie had more low bass than jurassic park . i guess that the director has been beside too many teenager's cars and he , like they , equate bass overload with power and sex appeal . in a movie that could have benefited from more humor , scott does get one good one-liner . well , my ears hurt when i left his . now for the promised story on why this screening was so unusual . one of the stars of the show was there live and even stayed afterwards in the lobby so we could meet her . okay , so she was the dog in the movie , but she was cute and this was my first such interaction with a star . the people from " bow wow productions " were there too and showed what a talented dog they had . in the movie the dog is owned by ronnie and appears in quite a number of scenes . metro runs too long at 1 : 57 . the movie drags in the slow parts , and the action sequences go on too long . the film is rated r . there is violence , profanity , brief nudity , but no sex . the show would be fine for teenagers . metro is too frustrating and tiring to recommend , but it does have its moments . i give metro my rating of average , which is * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : january 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	a further vulgarization of shakespeare's most vulgar play that succeeds in going over the top and losing its sensibilities without adding anything worthwhile to take the place of what was lost , yet it is not without its positives . this early tragedy written by the young bard is also his weakest and most turbulent play , casting out dramatical dimensions , poetry , and pity in favor of gore . it is a difficult one to come to terms with , except to see it for its dark humor and parody . anthony hopkins plays titus with the same kitsch he played hannibal lecter , but without the same results . the film was also overlong at 162 minutes , without having a sufficient reason for being that long . cumming's plays his role as an insecure , campy effete , prancing about as a puff , coifed in an adolph hitler hairstyle , as he aims to steal every scene by his gyrations and petulant looks . it all seems glossy and avant-garde , but surprisingly , the film is most faithful to shakespeare's text . titus will then slit her throat with the appetite of a psychopath , smacking his lips with delight as his chef's hat bobs up and down . the emperor's fate is also sealed in a similar manner . not every work by shakespeare has to be great , even though , if the bard wrote it , there has to be something there . this one suffers from worldliness , hollowness , and from having no point to it ; i doubt if any screenplay could rescue it from its banality of violence . julie taymor's version was a good costumed effort to show the violence for all that it is , but in the process making it into a campy grand guignol production . but i found it all coming together too artificially . it was an art-house film , way too fluffy to serve the film's dramatic efforts , as it all seemed like a fellini rip-off , taking the subtlety out of shakespeare's work for all the excesses engendered . 
2	the newton boys illustrates that it's possible to make a film about gangsters and gunplay without an abundance of bloodshed , violence , and death . that's not to say that the newton boys doesn't have its grim moments , but linklater limits the shadows . the result is a fast-paced , entertaining motion picture that replaces gritty tension with a lightly- dramatic character interaction that occasionally borders on straight comedy . linklater presents all four brothers as happy , good-natured fellows -- the kind of guys no one would mind hanging out with . the film's narrative spotlight shines brightest on willis , but finds time to illuminate the other three brothers , as well . since it spans a five-year period , the newton boys is understandably episodic . to emphasize the newton boys' cheerful nature , danny barnes' score remains upbeat . linklater opens the film to this music with credits designed to evoke memories of the silent era . in addition to assuring that no one will leave the movie early , these excerpts deepen the sense of closure offered by the series of captions that finish the narrative . none of the actors in the newton boys gives a standout performance , but no one seems miscast , either . the lower-profile vincent d'onofrio ( last seen as the hulking villain in men in black ) gives the strongest performance of the lead quartet , and dwight yoakam proves that his work in sling blade wasn't a fluke . actress who is beginning to forge a big-screen name for herself , provides solid support for the mostly-male cast . the film is something of a departure for linklater , whose previous efforts ( including slacker , before sunrise , and suburbia ) have been dialogue-and-character-centered pieces , whereas the newton boys' greatest strengths are tone and narrative . going into the film , i knew little about the newtons ( except that they were pre-depression era bank robbers ) , and , while i'm always wary of being " educated " by fact-based motion pictures ( no matter how scrupulously they have been researched ) , i left the theater with a better idea of who these men were . more importantly , i was entertained , and , for that pleasure , i can forgive any dramatic license that linklater may have taken . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	" joy ride " is calculated to draw fear from the viewer and does not attempt to develop character or enlarge its story , as it goes on a wild cross-country ride into dark terrain . its menacing trucker theme reminded me most of steven spielberg's 1971 film " duel , " though this one is played more for laughs . it's also aided by many noirish images and small touches among the supporting characters that give the film a quirky humor , as it scales familiar genre territory from remote gas stations to dead-end dusty roads to hostile redneck bars . but here the material is freshened with a different take on it . but we never see him through the hazy windshield of his rig , which makes him even more scary . how he does--just doesn't seem to matter , as the film plays out its hand as a sophomoric joke gone dangerously bad . anyway , while the story is moving at a frenetic pace , serious thought is not called for . there's b-film fun here if you don't mind the many holes in the story and how slight the plot is and how the sadistic trucker can set so many successful traps for them when it doesn't seem possible , and that we are never let in on the secret of how he does it . fuller nervously says , " much more than usual . " but there's always an element of fun in how absurd this all is , and the mostly teen-ager audience where i saw this film laughed at parts of it and shrieked in fright during the parts that were creepy . it's not a terribly interesting film but the director john dahl ( " red rock west " / " the last seduction " ) and his writers clay tarver and j . j . abrams , have made a film that knows its audience and knows how to pull its punches . it's an easy film to critique for what it doesn't do , but what it does do very well is take you for a comically dark fantasy ride and the filmmaker keeps this thriller tense throughout . the result is a cleverly done cultish film that's scary , building to that grotesquely violent finale in the motel . it's also a bit kinky without any explicit sex scenes . a film that should be admired totally for its entertainment value and filmmaking craftsmanship , and the engaging performance by zahn . 
2	from time immemorial , the experience of eating a good meal has been regarded as one of life's most hedonistic pleasures . in a recent survey , more than 50% of americans indicated they would rather eat a memorable dinner than experience a night of uninhibited sex . motion pictures , ever reflective of the cultures that spawn them , have always recognized the potential for food-related stories . recent films like babette's feast and eat drink man woman have sent audiences home sated . now , there's a new entry on the menu : big night , the directorial debut of actors stanley tucci and campbell scott . and , while perhaps not as sumptuous as the previously-mentioned entrees , it's nevertheless a tasty main course . events in big night reminded me of the so-called " pizza wars " of the 1980s . people , it seems , didn't care about quality . for the simple convenience of not having to get off the sofa , many preferred eating flavored cardboard to real pizza . not many customers frequent this small establishment , however -- there aren't free side orders of pasta , the lovingly-prepared food takes too long to reach the tables , and there's no live performer . across the street is pascal's italian grotto , which nightly draws full houses for its cheap , plentiful , familiar italian fare and lively ambiance . for primo , an uncompromising purist , " to eat good food is to be close to god . " the problem is , the brothers' time is almost up . to celebrate the event , primo and secondo prepare the feast of a lifetime , aware that if everything doesn't go right , this one expensive evening could turn out the be their last supper . the parallels are plentiful , with customers at the more eclectic site complaining when they get something that's not the recycled fare they were expecting . the italian grotto caters to the masses , giving them a flashy meal without the originality and excellence that can be found at the smaller , less ostentatious location across the street . the centerpiece of big night is , obviously , the big night -- everything from the preparation to the serving of the dishes comprising the multi-course dinner . lots and lots of eating . while primo and secondo anchor the film , the guests at the party add flavor and color to the night's festivities . the cast is wonderful , as is the direction by scott and tucci . the bond between brothers is developed in a believable way , with the usual mix of friction and wordless affection . in addition to their deft skill with light drama , the directors understand well-placed humor , and throw just the right amount of comedy into the mix to make big night fun without turning it into an outright farce . watch for a visual joke featuring a lamp in pascal's office and some wordplay about whether it can rain inside . when it comes to seeing big night , two words say it all : bon appetite ! 
2	rather than trying to tell the whole story of the war , it concentrates on one man's struggle and on the role of the militia . within this limited scope , it succeeds handsomely . its only shortcoming is that the final cut includes too much fluff and minor romances . at a half-hour shorter , its impact would have been dramatically heightened . " i haven't got the luxury of principles . " mel gibson delivers an understated but strong performance , bringing humanity to a role that could easily dissolve into caricature . with his convincing expressions of grief and dedication , we empathize with his plight . in contrast , another of this summer's would-be action heroes , george clooney ( the perfect storm ) , was so wooden in his delivery that we didn't care what happened to his character . the music by john williams ( star wars ) is strong and effective but never overwhelming . the movie whets our appetite for more movies about the revolutionary war . it is , arguably , the most important time in our country's history but , sadly , one of the most ignored by filmmakers . maybe , just maybe , this picture will inspire the creation of many others about this period . one can hope . it is rated r for strong war violence and would be fine for teenagers . given the low test scores of our teenagers on american history , they should all see this movie . besides teaching them , it might encourage them to learn more about this era . 
0	a shlock frankenstein flick by strock . this ones strictly for the drive-in crowd of the 1950s . to see it in the next century , is to watch how a bad film could still be around because it has attained cult-film status . everything is there but the face . there's a discreet housekeeper who is hardly seen , except when she serves him meals . this upsets doc so much that he cuffs her . getting no response , doc says " answer me ! you have a civil tongue in your head ! i know , i sewed it in there ! " the monster turns out to be a bit cranky and is not completely obedient to his master . the film's violent climax for some reason switches out of it b&w format and goes into technicolor . this is a lovable bad film , but don't ask me why ! 
1	screenplay : ron nyswaner . director : jonathan demme . maybe i've just been lucky , but after living in northern california for almost ten years i no longer think of " tolerance " as merely a buzzword ; it's part of the fabric of life . consequently , i couldn't help but feel slightly patronized by the sense of outrage which provides the backbone of jonathan demme's philadelphia . the message was important , but to me , it wasn't news . when that message is stripped away to permit examination of the filmmaking , i find as many examples of what i consider bad decisions as i find good decisions , and too many characters who come off as walking allegories . it is to screenwriter ron nyswaner's credit that it doesn't offer the stock scene of a doctor delivering the somber news ; hiv from the outset is simply one element in andrew's life , but not the defining element . philadelphia sets the stage effectively , making the way this case will affect the two men the focal point of the story . as a courtroom drama , philadelphia is fairly pedestrian stuff , lacking real dramatic punch and giving in to preachy speeches . demme makes the extremely questionable decision of framing much of one lengthy trial sequence from andrew's perspective as he grows weaker . there are distracting camera angles and sound echoes which make it difficult to concentrate on what anyone involved is actually saying . andrew's condition became the total focus at a time when it simply wasn't appropriate in the narrative . outside the courtroom things aren't much better . philadelphia's most talked-about scene involves andrew responding to an aria , a scene which seems calculated to be one of those tour-de- force moments that wins oscars . i found it way over the top . hanks' performance has been touted as an oscar front-runner , and while he makes some bold choices , i don't feel it's the best work he's done , or even the best work he's done this year . by far the best work , and the most dynamic character , is denzel washington's joe miller . once again washington fills the screen with energy , and isn't afraid to show miller's warts , making him a very real typical american . as with the wedding banquet , i went into philadelphia wanting to like it and glad that it had been made . but once again i felt the message deserved a better messenger , one that treats homosexuality as matter-of-factly as the recent tales of the city miniseries on pbs . philadelphia is a good idea , just not a particularly good film . 
2	this is a dogma 95 styled film , where the danish filmmaker's group manifesto determines the rules for how the film is to be made . the idea is to give their films a fresh look and for them to provide the unexpected , and to catch on film the complete truth from its characters and their situations . this film was shot with a small video camera ( a sony pc7 ) that fits in the palm of your hand , then it is transferred to the prescribed dogma 35-millimeter format . i suppose it is fair to assume that one of the reasons that this manifesto was drawn up in 1995 by four danish filmmakers--christian levring , soren kragh-jacobsen , thomas vinterberg , and lars von trier-- was to give them publicity and challenge the film community to create innovative films . so far the only two films i saw from this group , von trier's the idiots & breaking the waves , have been challenging and impressive films . for those interested in what their dogma document actually states , i give you the following example : " 2 . the sound must never be produced apart from the image or vice versa . any movement or immobility attainable in the hand is permitted . the film must be in color . special lighting is not acceptable . ( if there is too little light for exposure , the scene must be cut or a single lamp [must] be attached to the camera . ) " 6 . the film must not contain superficial action . is to say that the film takes place here and now . ) " 8 . genre movies are not acceptable . " 10 . the director must not be credited . " furthermore , i swear as a director to refrain from personal taste ! i am no longer an artist . i swear to refrain from creating a 'work , ' as i regard the instant as more important than the whole . my supreme goal is to force the truth out of my characters and settings . i swear to do so by all the means available and at the cost of any good taste and any aesthetic considerations . " rules like that rub me the wrong way . what i ask from a film , is for it to be imaginative and well-made , and i don't particularly care how the filmmaker accomplishes that . it would be impossible to go into the minute details of the film without immeasurably spoiling it for the viewer who hasn't seen the film . my pleasure in seeing it was that i was caught completely unaware of what was to occur and that shock kept me absorbed in the story , not quite knowing what to expect next . this might be the secret reason why the film worked so well , as i was made to feel like one of the guests in this theatrical film . the result of the film was exhilerating , dogma or not , it is a work that is scathing , penetrating layers of deceit and festering wounds that cannot be healed . but it was to no avail . to point out how the guests weren't quite sure of anything that was happening there , they are shown eating lobster , or salmon , or tomato soup , each one unsure of what they were served . the celebration is indeed a celebration not to be forgotten soon . it drains the emotions , somehow satisfies the intellect , and challenges the conventions of the usual fare of sophisticated family drama . vinterberg declares how the impact of helge's revelation affected everyone in the immediate family , and how that acted as a cleansing for the tribe , something that was essential for their psyches . at least , they now have some kind of a shot of pulling themselves together , even though the film does not show any of them changing internally . and how the film accomplished this , was through good storytelling , where one doesn't need any false constraints , something that is reminiscent of greek tragedy or shakespearean drama . 
2	screenplay : peter hedges . director : lasse hallstrom . tone alone cannot sustain a film , but it can go a long way . if i can find myself lost in the time and place of a story , it scores immediate style points . when that tone is backed up by an outstanding story and great acting , the effect can be described best by an adjective i do not use lightly : " literary . " what's eating gilbert grape ? is such a film . it's a rich , memorable and stunningly acted story of desire colliding with responsibility , staged in a manner which many viewers might find too prosaic , but which insinuated itself into my imagination with its confidence . the midwestern sunsets and sprawling fields are beautifully photographed , and the atmosphere of the town is intensely real . minor characters , like crispin glover as the town's mortician , are vividly realized , and there are echoes of the last picture show in mary steenburgen's desperately unhappy housewife . not a single note in the depiction of endora rang false . the same can be said of the character of gilbert . it's testimony to the precision involved in his creation that he came together completely with one perfectly placed line , when becky responds to gilbert's description of his father with , " i knew someone like that once . " johnny depp expertly demonstrates the tension central to gilbert by playing everything below the surface , but he never gives in to one-dimensional blankness or simply regurgitates his naif roles in benny & joon and edward scissorhands . depp's performance is overshadowed , however , by leonardo dicaprio's astonishing oscar-nominated supporting work as arnie . he puts to shame such big name actors as john malkovich and dustin hoffman , whose mentally challenged characters never seemed completely real . only juliette lewis doesn't quite click , playing a critical role with her now familiar dopey drone and too little genuine spark . gilbert grape does seem to drift into its conclusion , but it never lost me . thanks to a lovingly created setting and a marvelous cast , this 1993 release proves well worth the wait . 
1	about thirty minutes into desperate remedies , i finally asked myself the question : " what am i watching ? " defying categorization , this movie is just plain weird , and unlike anything else currently playing in theaters . desperate remedies is a grand melodrama that's completely aware of its over-the-top tendencies ( in fact , it revels in them ) . the production is pervaded by an ongoing sense of surrealism , and seems unconcerned about whether anyone believes what's going on or not . for the record , there is a story , and it's a fairly delightful blend of double-dealing and backstabbing . one wonders what this might have been like had it been filmed straight , without the production elements interfering with the general enjoyment of the movie . the closest thing i can come up with is dangerous liaisons . essentially , this is an arty harlequin romance--with the twist that it never takes itself seriously . or , rather , it takes itself so seriously that it's plain that the directors are having fun with the material . desperate remedies is not a particularly engaging motion picture . with its vividly-colorful settings and operatic score , this movie has difficulty curbing its excesses , and this overblown , self- conscious approach distances the audience . that's not to say that there aren't some clever moments . particularly memorable are instances where a comment about removing fraser is accompanied by scissors snipping a thread , and where time running out is emphasized by the ticking of a watch . in general , however , all the perks in desperate remedies are visual or gimmicky in nature . when it comes to the story , this movie is more than a little flat . 
1	" not too hot . extra chocolate . this is one of the details we learn in the expanded santa legend known as the santa clause . released by walt disney in time for christmas in 1994 , the santa clause covers much of the same ground as the miracle on 34th street films . although not as good as the others , the santa clause is a charming little picture in its own right . this is all done in a spirit of fun and high adventure . my son's eyes were glowing watching it all . i've got good home owner's insurance . " all the elves are children , which provides a special bond with the young viewers of the movie . we say little people . " the elves are all precious . she has an infectious smile . just looking at her makes you happy for inexplicable reasons . a better summary of the spirit of santa claus , i have not heard . there is a potential problem for this as a family show , and it is the duality of the belief about santa claus . children will have certain assumptions about santa , and this film could be viewed as presenting another set of possibilities . we worried about this a bit , but decided to let our son see it anyway . whether this could prove troubling to other and especially to younger kids remains problematic . the two leads , tim allen and eric lloyd , give solid performances , and john pasquin directs with careful precision . the santa clause is a pleasant little fable . a good choice to kick back and enjoy during the holiday season . the santa clause runs a fast 1 : 37 . it is rated pg for reasons that escape me . there is no sex , nudity , violence or bad language . yes , someone dies , but that happens too in many kid's movies from the wizard of oz to bambi . perhaps death is enough to get a pg , but except for the santa legend already discussed , the film is fine for kids of all ages . jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , said that the movie was " really good . i loved it ! " i recommend this family fare to you and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	forget paris is a billy crystal movie in the style of one of woody allen's new york jewish comedies . he is even , briefly , the only singer in the movie . i can not find the cinematographer's name so for all i know , billy was behind the camera as well . if you like the nba , i don't , you can see all your favorite stars in cameos roles through out the movie although the basketball scenes take up less ten percent of the show . the french representatives of the airline do not care about his complaints . the dinner party is actually quite interesting as well . it provided the most humorous single line . by far the funniest sequence has to be all of the fertility clinic scenes . the dialog is uproarious . i had trouble controlling myself i was laughing so hard . i got to worrying that i might be offensive to the rest of the audience i was laughing so loud . all of the above having been said , i am sad to report that the movie was extremely uneven in quality . most of the time , it was like a flywheel that kept spinning but engaged only infrequently . crystal directed the actors so that they were like detached free agents . moreover , the script only allocated them funny material at sporadic intervals . when the scene's should have had strong male bonding , there was none . the chemistry between mickey and ellen was never there so you did not care about them . since the movie tried to be both serious and comedic , having no believable relationships was a real problem . the comedy , when it was present , was excellent . the serious part was non-engaging , dull , and lifeless . it is rated pg-13 for the fertility clinic scene , but overall , it is a mild pg-13 . there is no nudity or violence , albeit a lot of discussion of sex . forget paris , when it worked , made me laugh hard and long so i can easily recommend it to you . on the other hand , the vast majority of the film had no value other than filling in time before the next joke came along , so i am only awarding it only * * 1/2 . ______________________________________________________________________ * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 25 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	i guess there are some concepts that don't excel in the translation from the small screen to the big one , and mystery science theater 3000 appears to be among these . the tv series , which started on a minneapolis uhf channel in 1988 before moving to hbo's comedy channel in 1989 , provides light , undemanding entertainment for those who enjoy lampooning ( or , perhaps more appropriately , harpooning ) bad movies . this new motion picture incarnation , which boasts larger sets but essentially the same format , is on par with one of the lesser episodes . as a tv diversion , mst3k is thoroughly enjoyable , but , in this new medium , it's something of a disappointment . for those unfamiliar with the mst3k premise , it goes something like this : a dastardly mad scientist , dr . forrester ( trace beaulieu ) , has decided to conquer the world by subjecting the entire population to bad movies . instead of being tortured into submission , however , these three actually seem to enjoy the experience . episode-after-episode , they sit in the audience and mock whatever " cinematic suppository " forrester exhibits . as viewers , we see a movie screen showing the picture of choice with a row of seats and three moving heads silhouetted against it . for mst3k : the movie , the film-to-be-savaged is this island earth , a 1954 science fiction embarrassment that could hold its own against any other entries in the worst movie of all time competition . a significant problem with using a movie this deliciously bad is that the film generates enough unintentional humor on its own , so it doesn't really need the quips and barbs from servo , mike , and crow . although a number of their comments are very funny , this island earth would have had me doubled over with laughter had i seen it without the mst3k format . unfortunately , during the course of this film , there are several contrived breaks that get the characters out of the darkened theater . during these sequences , without a cheesy flick to inspire them , their banter comes across as juvenile . such unnecessary and pointless padding dilutes the movie's better aspects . die-hard fans will undoubtedly be delighted , but it's more difficult to determine how casual viewers will react , especially if they realize that they're paying for something that's no better than what's available on tv . in fact , the theatrical environment may stifle mst3k , unless you happen to see it in a rocky horror picture show setting . by its nature , mst3k demands audience participation -- something difficult to obtain in a typical movie-watching environment . in general , it's easy to praise the ingenuity of the mst3k writers , although less for this script than for some of what they have previously accomplished . in this case , however , mst3k : the movie is routine -- sporadically funny , occasionally clever , but routine nonetheless . 
1	is presented onscreen is an intelligent but somber look at how the three main characters cope with their uneven lives and manage to act so civilized when feeling so much pain at finding their lives to be unresolved . the film is a constant flux between flashbacks and what is current . we first see bendrix at his typewriter , writing about hatred . he plays the role romantically , in an old-fashioned manner , exhibiting a relish for the role . julianne moore evoked a special passion to her role , she was able to mix the fire in her with the serenity , making her performance a sublime one . the film works mainly because of her . that is why it was essential to film so many of their scenes over again , to witness how each viewed the same experience they were having . the problem with that , is the film seemed to move at a snail's pace , and had too much of a vacuum between its intellectual messages and heavily passionate scenes . overall , it was a rather dull film , despite the fine performances , the intelligence of the story , the able direction , and the beautiful cinematography . though what's astonishing about jordan's direction , is the mood the film sets , being so nostalgic and intimidating , as if daring the viewer to believe that this old-fashioned kind of genteel love story could also be so daring in its passions , and challenging in its arguments about jealousy , carnal love , and religious faith . this is all aided by the splendidly vivid images and the expressive language of the sensitive lovers trying to express their inner feelings . it is through greene's own words , where he relates how much more difficult it is to talk and write about happiness than it is about pain , that one can understand how the moore role is most likely to be believed only by a true believer , that words are inadequate to relate the joy she felt . the film , as well-conceived as it was , was still too laborious of a process . i think the story would have had more tension to it , if henry wasn't such a wimp and put up some kind of fight for his wife . 
2	france , 1993 u . s . release date : widely variable ( limited ) running length : 1 : 45 mpaa classification : no mpaa rating ( violence , profanity , mature themes ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 66 : 1 cast : jennifer zubar , toto bissainthe , jean-michel martial , patrick rameau director : raoul peck producer : pascal verroust screenplay : andre graill and raoul peck cinematography : armand marco in french with english subtitles every war , revolution , or military action has its own atrocity tales . it doesn't matter whether the perpetrators are romans , nazi , serbs , or some other group -- horror is horror , no matter who commits it . the strength of this film lies not so much in the actual story , but in the manner of its telling . the torture scene , shown in flashback , is especially disturbing , not so much because it is excessively graphic ( gore in movies these days can rarely be considered shocking ) , but because of the chilling nonchalance with which janvier dispenses his brand of " justice . " these are images that never leave her , and their haunting presence impels the film's climax . janvier is a truly reprehensible character -- a villain without charisma . there is nothing remotely charming about his brand of evil . this isn't the kind of man whom you love to hate ; you simply hate him . although she has no real power , her calm , confident manner commands respect , even from someone like janvier . one of the great strengths of the man by the shore is how it contrasts everyday activities -- adults running stores , children playing games or riding bicycles to the seashore -- with the ever-lurking savageness that threatens to explode without provocation . a small , overlooked film , the man by the shore deserves to be seen by all who don't shrink from gut-wrenchingly genuine accounts of disturbing events . 
2	screenplay : kenneth branagh , based on the play by william shakespeare . director : kenneth branagh . kenneth branagh's hamlet is the first film version of shakespeare's revered tragedy to use the full , uncut text , and you know what that means : before you settle into your theater seat , smoke 'em if you got 'em , be sure to use the restroom , and bring extra quarters for parking . this hamlet is 238 minutes long -- 258 including the intermission -- making it one of the longest films ever produced for theatrical distribution . it is a terribly risky undertaking , but branagh has proven once again that the bard is safe in his hands . his hamlet does a remarkable job of demonstrating exactly how much is lost in edited versions of the play , re-vitalizing characterizations and offering a visual spectacle . it is a worthy challenger to laurence olivier's 1948 hamlet as the definitive film interpretation of the text . that bare bones synopsis cannot even begin to do justice to the complexity of hamlet , of course , but neither do many abbreviated film and stage versions . branagh's use of the entire text proves to be far more than a purist conceit , as he reveals additional layers of meaning . this hamlet is richer than any other you might have known because every piece of sub-text remains in the text . it is also a version which uses the unique opportunities of cinema better than any other . branagh has an instinct for excess in his film direction , but his dedication to shakespeare has anchored his adaptations of henry v and much ado about nothing where mary shelley's frankenstein and dead again occasionally got away from him . combining creative interpretive choices for the characters ( polonius [richard briers] becomes more malevolent and hypocritical as he is shown with a prostitute before sending someone to check up on laertes in france ) with superb technical credits ( tim harvey's dazzling production design and alex byrne's elegant , evocative 19th century costumes ) , branagh adds another thoroughly cinematic shakespeare to his resume . his direction may be nearly unimpeachable , but there are other areas where branagh's " more is more " philosophy are a hindrance . the casting of several familiar faces in minor roles feels more like a stunt than an artistic choice , and while crystal and charlton heston ( as the player king ) in particular are surprisingly effective in their roles , the effect is more often to turn hamlet into a hollywood sight-seeing tour : " look , there's gerard depardieu ! look , there's robin williams ! " branagh's lead performance is also distracting , and not because he makes poor character choices ( unless his bleached-blond hair counts ) ; the problem is that he is playing to the balcony even though he is on a movie screen . there may be one too many scenes in which spittle flies from the thin lips of his impassioned hamlet , and while branagh has a firm grasp of the dane's lighter side , his emoting is often forced . still , it is hard to come down too hard on a man who not only committed himself to the most challenging role in the history of theater , but directed an epic period production of the most challenging play in the history of theater . branagh took an exceptional gamble , and it paid off in an exceptional film . take a chance on spending 238 minutes to stretch your understanding of this remarkable play ; you can always stretch your legs during the intermission . 
2	mute witness is a hitchcockian film that tests the limits of good taste , but nevertheless is a real treat if you can appreciate strange , off-beat movies . i predict many people will be turned off by it and a fair number will walk out , but i was surprised at how much i thoroughly enjoyed it . mute witness tells the story of an american film company shooting a low budget picture in moscow . the central premise of the movie is that billy accidentally witnesses a porn film being made by sergei karlenkov where the actress in it is actually stabbed and murdered . despite its frequent crudeness , mute witness works for two reasons . first , you keep being tricked on what is real , and what is fake ; who are the bad guys and who are the good . second , first time movie actress mary sudina gives a compelling performance . when she is in danger , it feels real and her performance makes you sincerely care for her character . i hope to see sudina in many more films since she has a lot of talent . anthony waller is a first time director and writer who is innovative , shocking , and involving . assuming you do not get turned off by the psycho style violence and leave immediately , you will find yourself being drawn into the complex web of the story . the movie is like a one of those paper mazes where you are trying to help billy find her way out to a safe spot without moving her into one of the many squares where she will be killed . waller has seen and learned from many of hitchcock's best movies . another complication is that billy can hear fine , but the people who may or may not be bad guys speak in russian , and she can not understand a word they say . the special effects are simple but effective . is that supposed to be real blood or fake , a real gun shot or a blank ? the cinematography by egon werdin , the editing by peter r . adam , and the camera work also by director/writer waller use many dramatic cuts . one minute we are watching a scene where someone is being stabbing with the blood ( or is it really blood ? ) spurting to a scene of rare meat in a restaurant being sliced . vegetarianism may find many converts from the people who see this film . there are many little treats in the show . for one the dialog is frequently quiet funny without any traces of being slapstick . i refuse to give away his identity , but i did read that he made the scenes ten years ago when the director first had the idea for the movie . the director just keep the scenes in the film canister . if you see the movie , you will recognize him . just as soon as you think you know what is real and what isn't , you find out you don't , and this confusing state keeps iterating until finally the truth is revealed . whew . it is rated r for sex , nudity , and lots of blood . i found the blood a little shocking but not overdone , nevertheless , i think the film borders on being nc-17 and is not appropriate for teenagers . if you feel like something out of the ordinary , and you like mysteries , i recommend mute witness to you . it was a * * * movie for me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	screenplay : josh goldsmith & cathy yuspa . director : nancy meyers . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( sexual situations , adult themes , profanity , drug use ) running time : 126 minutes . over twenty years into a ridiculously successful film career , mel gibson chose 2000 to do a pure comedy for the first time and it seems terribly unfair that he appears so good at it . gibson has always had tremendous charm on screen , and his light touch provided most of the best moments in the lethal weapon series , but he has shied away from roles that showcased those elements of his personality . mel gibson delivers a wonderfully entertaining comic performance in what women want , the kind of performance that should make for classic comedy . we'll forgive gibson on grounds of inexperience for not choosing the sort of script that could show off his newfound comic chops . what women want , a film that could have been groundhog day brilliant , comes out merely adequate thanks to a script that's about two re-writes away from being ready . then a twist of fate -- and an electric shock -- endows nick with the ability to hear women's thoughts . what women want is a gimmick movie , which can easily turn into an empty marketing-friendly concept without some competent execution . in mel gibson , they have a more than competent star to execute that gimmick . mel knocks out every twist of character and goofy situation he's handed , from the swagger of the opening scenes to his broader physical gags to his quiet moments with hunt . it's not jaw-dropping film acting by any means , but it's so deft with the fluffy material that you'd think he'd been doing it all his life . i wish the same could be said of the writers . at over two hours , what women want is a textbook example of a film with no sense of its story's essential elements . there's hardly a scene in what women want that doesn't feel like it should either be a minute shorter or absent altogether . instead of making all the necessary plot and character points efficiently the first time , screenwriters josh goldsmith and cathy yuspa opt to make the same point multiple times , just so we don't miss it . there are definitely some worthwhile individual moments to make up for the sloppy structure . others are combinations of script and performance , like gibson's drunken experimentation with a number of women's products . and many of them are purely showcases for the actors -- including hunt , who tames her patrician chilliness and delivers her most engaging big screen comic performance . this is really a star vehicle , though , and if it provides any enjoyment , it's from the pleasure of watching a macho man have so much fun doing something he's never done before . give credit to director nancy meyers for finding this performance in mel gibson . give credit to mel gibson for finding this performance in himself . and next time , let's hope we can give him credit for picking better material . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	yet the chamber depends on such warm fuzziness when it comes to matters of race , because its thinking is equally fuzzy . it is one of the chamber's many bits of convenient ignorance that adam makes his plea with absolute earnestness , despite the fact that his own father suffered and struggled not to turn out like sam . of course , it may be that chris o'donnell knew no other way to make that speech , because earnestness is the only emotional pitch in which he seems capable of performing . the chamber may toss around ideas about racism , the politics of criminal justice and corruption in high places -- all pet peeves of grisham's , if his oeuvre is any indication -- but ultimately it really comes down to the face-offs between hackman and o'donnell , and man oh man but o'donnell is wrestling out of his weight class . there may be no more inconsequential actor in american films than chris o'donnell , a pretty boy who makes you want to re-evaluate keanu reeves as a multi-shaded thespian . then there is gene hackman , an actor with the ability to make you sit through nonsense like this just for the chance to watch him do his thing . it is a really little more than a piece of anti-death penalty propaganda , but hackman sells it with such conservation of emotion that it doesn't feel as obvious as it should . he makes that speech a statement about the feelings of his character , which is the mark of a superior actor : the words he speaks are his . films about condemned killers have been all the rage lately , but the chamber is both the most weightless and the most subtly offensive of them all , because it is so disingenuous in its portrayal of sam . 
2	the often filmed story of joan of arc , but a story that is seldom successfully filmed , is attempted again by jacques rivette ( up/down/fragile ( 95 ) /la belle noiseuse ( 91 ) /la religieuse ( 65 ) /celine et julie vont en bateau ( 74 ) ) , and the results for this epic study of joan are more than pleasing but less than scintillating . rivette was born in rouen , france , in 1928 and it is interesting to note , that was the year when dreyer's magnificent silent version of joan first appeared onscreen , which was made as a spiritual testament to joan's moral courage . he was a critic at cahiers du cinema and the much praised movie director is now considered to be one of the more noted unorthodox directors around , who will be forever associated with the french new wave . sumptuously filmed in brilliant color , it captures best the wonderful shades of france's fall and wintery colors . scenes shift as dates change and are so indicated onscreen . we see in rivette's joan , that it is her sobering historical story that counts the most and the price joan will pay for that , is that when compared with dreyer's joan , we don't have the same intense passion for her as we do for dreyer's more spiritual and intense joan . in this film , it is the king's coldness and the church's intrigue that strikes us , while joan and the soldiers she fights with , are given a warm treatment , as if they were the heroes in a hollywood war movie . the floundering country is in such a bad state , that it is about to be completely taken over by the british . my sign from god , will be proven on the battlefield of orleans . by may of 1431 , she is told by the bishop at rouen to either abjure or burn at the cross . she says , " god has pity on me , i damned myself to save my life . . . but this film seems to be the most accurate version of all the joan films , thus far , as rivette followed the trial transcripts and whatever history of her battles were recorded by eyewitnesses , but it failed to move me in an intimate way as much as the dreyer version did , which made more of a personal statement and an artistic response to those in power who try to stifle the voice of an individual's expression , while rivette uses the visual epic scope of history to make his point , that the call for freedom is not necessarily separate from politics . her performance was more than acceptable , but it was not memorable or moving . rivette's version is good to see as a companion piece to dreyer , as they both have things in their films that the other never attempted , and though rivette's version is intriguing and colorful and politically savvy , it is not a masterpiece . it is just missing that magical ingredient in it , the something that dreyer found when he went for the abstractions , the something that history couldn't tell . 
0	if a producer had ever been foolish enough to give ed wood ( director of arguably the worst movie ever made , plan 9 from outer space ) a hundred million dollars , the result could well have been this batman & robin . in summer hollywood studios usually figure that big budget action pictures will sell regardless of quality . but even with diminished expectations , batman & robin is surprisingly bad . it insults the viewer's intelligence with lifeless acting and a tired script . in our packed advanced screening , there was excitement in the air before the film started . but after the lights went down , the audience stared in almost silent disbelief at a film that was so doa . the third batman movie , batman forever , which felt like it went on forever , had the misfortune to have been directed by joel schumacher . the fourth in the batman series , batman & robin , again has schumacher as the director . this time he manages to badly miscast the roles of batman and robin and then coach arnold schwarzenegger into giving the worst performance of his career . from the film's opening line of " the iceman cometh , " by schwarzenegger as victor fries/mr . freeze , the dialog itself is frozen . the show features bad acting masquerading as camp . mr . freeze's lines are spoken staccato style , and all of the cast speaks without intonation . less like acting than the reading aloud one would expect from a second grader . there are the primary colors of the save-the-rain-forest benefit as well as scenes of blue gray ice . savor these elements of the picture for they are all that is worthwhile . had i not been there to review the film i would have walked out after five minutes , literally . it is that bad . if you think george clooney is an unlikely and unpromising choice for batman , you are right . whereas michael keaton was quirky and val kilmer was outlandish and brooding , clooney gives such an inconsequential performance as bruce wayne/batman that he blends into the background . chris o'donnell suffers the same problem . akiva goldsman's script gives the two women the same throwaway lines as the rest of the cast . ( " come with me , " teases poison ivy to robin . as i sat frozen as if by mr . freeze's big gun , i whiled away the time suffering through batman & robin wondering if there was any movie i enjoyed less this year . although i could not recall all 137 movies i have seen this year , i could not think of any that were worse . " if i must suffer , humanity will suffer with me , " warns mr . freeze . and so will batman & robin's audiences . batman & robin runs two long hours . it is rated pg-13 for cartoonish violence and sexual innuendoes . the film would be fine for kids around 8 or 9 and up , but i recommend seeing anything else . in comparison to batman & robin the summer's other action pictures look like masterpieces . if you do go , bring an interesting watch ; you are going to be looking at it frequently . i thought about giving the film no stars , but decided i would give it one half of a star for the sets . even so , i think i am being too generous . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	it was scheduled to be released theatrically in the us two months ago , but has already made its way to network television , showing this past saturday . our family was all ready to see it in paris this summer until we found out that they had dubbed into french rather than using subtitles . having vacationed near loch ness and having looked for nessie ourselves , we were intrigued to see how the movie would approach the canonical mysterious monster of our time . as a travelogue that will make the scottish board of tourism proud , the movie is a success . the cinematography by clive tickner is full of sweeping grandeur . i attribute that less to tickner's skills than to the countryside's inherent beauty . it would be hard to make the scottish highlands in and around loch ness look any other way . as he says , " i'm a joke . i want you to use state of the art equipment to prove that it's not there . " graham and to a lessor extent richardson are the only actors in the film that stay awake . considering the skills dr . dempsey displays , i agree . the intense violin music by trevor jones is a romantic complement to the lovely scenery . first time theatrical director john henderson's film works only as an atmospheric pageant of travel shots . ask your neighbor to show you the slides from his last trip to scotland and skip this meaningless film . it is rated pg , and the version shown on television has no sex , nudity , violence , or bad language . the show would be fine for kids of any age although i do not see why anyone would bother . on the other hand , my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives the film five thumbs up . i give the film a thumbs down and rate it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	writer/director raymond de felitta's two family house , set on staten island in 1956 , is a delightful movie that works on two levels . on the other , it is a richly evocative drama that easily wins your heart . full of honest moments , even if always told with a comedic flair , the film feels like a blend of a true story and a fairy tale . buddy didn't , but julius larosa did , and buddy has forever since regretted it . estelle isn't wild about the bar idea and even tries to spend them into bankruptcy at one point so that buddy will be forced to give it up . she doesn't think much of buddy or his pals , referring to them as " a bunch of knuckleheads . " this also makes mary into a social pariah , accorded status below that of a streetwalker . " you're a broad , " he replies in his typical , 50s macho vernacular . " you're supposed to cry . " the film is narrated by her son as an adult , giving it an extra dose of realism . the film's lush score by stephen endelman matches perfectly the bright and happy primary colors of michael mayers's cinematography . the vintage automobiles are so overly perfect that they are like a running joke . every car is spotless and looks like it just left the dealer's showroom . " i've got talent ! i could be somebody ! " buddy screams at estelle in lines reminiscent of marlon brando's famous ones . buddy is an everyman character , whose big dreams may never come true , but realizing his smaller ones may prove just as satisfying . it is rated r for language and brief sexuality and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	film at eleven . the original weekend at bernie's is an incredibly stupid film with enough off-color , macabre physical comedy to generate some laughs . it's a perfect vcr film--little or no attention is required to the plot , you can walk out of the room and come back in without missing anything , and the reduction of the picture to television size does nothing to hurt the film . it's not intuitive to expect a sequel to this brainless movie , but the original weekend did surprisingly well at the box-office . add to that the results from a big video market and a second installment became in inevitability . like home alone 2 , weekend at bernie's 2 is pretty much a re-hash of the first movie . of course , the corpse also gets viciously abused in every manner possible , without ever showing a scratch . however , when the music stops , the body collapses like a marionette with its strings cut . that certainly isn't an endorsement of the abilities of the rest of the cast , but it's a true statement . kiser's sense for physical comedy is good , and he manages to infuse this otherwise worthless movie with enough energy to keep it out of the bottom rung of 1993 films . weekend at bernie's 2 is made for a certain audience--the indiscriminate movie-goer who will see almost anything that guarantees a few laughs . almost all the humor is macabre and repetitive , but the film manages to be sporadically funny . nevertheless , i find it hard to believe that many people will pay $6 or $7 to see a picture that has tv sitcom production values , writing , and acting . for those who like movies in which corpses get knocked around and banged up , yet still manage to be more engaging than the living people around them , this film will not disappoint . also , fans of the original weekend at bernie's will probably be satisfied by this latest ( and hopefully last ) installment . 
0	starring : elijah wood , kevin costner , mare winningham , lexi randall . screenplay : kathy mcworter . director : jon avnet . if they gave out academy awards for earnestness , the war would have to be one of the front-runners . war , it solemnly intones , is bad ; so are racism and sexism . as a result , some very impressive performances are wasted on a script that just tries far too hard to deliver a very simplistic moral . the problem is that it's in too many places . it's not even enough that elvadine gets to tell off the teacher in a completely over-the-top speech ; lidia has to get her two cents in as well . mcworter appears convinced that wherever one speech is good , two must be even better . the script is overloaded with homilies , and needed a good re-write at least fifteen minutes shorter . one of the goals of that re-write should have been removing the characters of lidia and her friends entirely . the relationship between the simmons siblings is given only a cursory treatment , and the narration lidia provides could just as easily have been provided by stu , or not at all . the war is first and foremost about the relationship between stu and stephen , and there are too many tangents which ignore that relationship . when costner and wood are the focus of attention , the war is actually quite compelling . there is tremendous conflict in their relationship , and both actors do a fine job of bringing it out . sadly , mcworter and director jon avnet are more interested in heavy-handedness than they are in character study , so that by the time the climactic battle for the treehouse rolls around , the point has been made and made and made again . now let me get this straight : war is bad , right ? 
1	painfully shy but with an amazing ability to mimic the songs and voices of classic entertainers , including judy garland , marilyn monroe and billie holliday , lv appears at first to be a mute . as lv , jane horrocks , in a stunning performance , is so completely unlike the anorexic she played in life is sweet that most viewers will have trouble believing it is the same actress . the mother is as crude and unlikable as lv is delicate and winsome . the long , energetic scene of her bravado performance is the movie at its best . great period songs are belted out by horrocks herself -- no lip syncing in this movie . the story contains many needless extra characters and subplots . one involves a telephone installer who has a wayward homing pigeon , and another concerns a standup comic who isn't funny . although horrocks's characterization is phenomenal , the rest of the story is not as strong or as fresh . the film's ending is a manipulative tearjerker that it is an unbelievable plot device better suited for some other movie . little voice has many magical sequences , but it never quite lives up to the promise of its premise . stripped away of the uninteresting supporting characters and refocused on lv , the film would be infinitely better . and rather than one big singing number , give her two or three . horrocks deserves them . it is rated r for mature themes , brief nudity and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	for three quarters of the film , an exciting , somewhat plausible thriller takes place , that is even occasionally intriguing . then it comes apart and turns into routine hollywood , cop-out stuff . as a result , this film wastes splendid acting jobs by clint , ed , and scott . it is no mystery to the audience , because they saw exactly what happened . it is watchable hokum , with a hardly credible story , getting by solely on solid acting jobs from the leads . the script calls for no bold statements about the politics of the white house , which makes the film rather weak in scope and purpose . yet , the film is bearable , fortunate to be in the hands of someone as deft as clint ; or else , with a lesser director , it could have certainly sunk to an abysmally lower level , though one wouldn't be far wrong thinking it has already sunk to that level . 
1	date released : film festival showings only running length : 1 : 16 rated : no mpaa rating ( nothing offensive ) judging by the portrait of rodeo legend bruce ford as presented in arthur elgort's documentary , most of these cliches are far more accurate than one might reasonably expect . lovers of the rodeo will probably find a lot to enjoy about colorado cowboy . conversely , others' appreciation is likely to be limited . this film does little to initiate the non-aficionado into the world of rodeos , and its depiction of bruce ford concentrates on the bareback riding contests for which he is best known . most of the movie , however , centers on those eight seconds when the rider's attention focuses on staying in the saddle . " i'm a cowboy , " says ford . " it was born in me and bred in me . it's a life i love . " this statement encapsulates the movie's uncomplicated theme . nevertheless , it is worth noting the differences between the two in thematic richness and dramatic arc . discussion of wider social issues is beyond the film's scope . visually , despite a grainy black-and-white print , colorado cowboy impresses . the cinematography by morten sandtroen , which won an award at the 1994 sundance film festival , is eye-catching , using a variety of unusual camera angles to capture unique images . the sound editing , credited to stuart stanley , is some of the best ever in a low-budget film . colorado cowboy is almost worth viewing on technical merit alone . there's really nothing that sets this particular documentary apart from dozens of other similarly intentioned features and shorts produced each year . although competently constructed , colorado cowboy is aimed at a certain population , and viewers not in that group may find the picture's running time , even at a short seventy-six minutes , overlong . the above represents the opinions of the author , and not necessarily those of bellcore or any organization within bellcore . 
1	" why are you so afraid to leave the nest ? " jody tries to be cool around melvin , which isn't always easy . " you remember your curfew . " with melvin's rippling muscles and big tattoos , this makes for an impressive image . quite upset that melvin is devouring all of the kool-aid -- notice the choice of a child's drink -- jody wants to say something , but criticizing melvin does not seem like a promising idea . jody has ambitions . the film's recurring image is that of a grown man still in the womb . shocking and mildly cute at first , this is a visual that rapidly loses its appeal . written and directed by john singleton , who was responsible for the recent shaft remake as well as one of my personal favorites , rosewood , baby boy never rises above the level of a soap opera . yes , it is a well made soap opera , but not one that we care much about . then again , some people can't get enough of the tv soaps and dutifully set tapes to keep up with each day's shenanigans . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language , violence and some drug use and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	thus far , most of the movies to transport audiences to the reagan era have been characterized by nostalgia , generation x angst , or sophomoric humor . there's also a social message here about how many of the shallow life-views adopted during the period continue to plague our culture today . while disco music has gone and returned , many of the ideals that were around at the time of its demise have persisted ever since . the last days of disco is very different from any of the other late-'70s/early-'80s movies . sure , there's the requisite disco soundtrack loaded with tunes from sister sledge , donna summer , and others , and there are plenty of scenes featuring oddly-attired young people dancing under the flashing light of a strobe , but this film is packed with stillman characters , and , more importantly , stillman dialogue . only a handful of working film makers are capable of presenting the english language with the artistry and rhythm employed here ( tarantino and mamet come to mind ) , and the director's approach makes apparently-banal conversations come alive . there's not as much dialogue in the last days of disco as there is in either of stillman's previous features , metropolitan and barcelona , but what there is , is done in his inimitable style . for example , there are discourses about whether yuppies really exist , why vds aren't all bad , how virginity is defined , and whether it's a good idea to follow shakespeare's maxim , " to thine own self be true . " plus , there's a hilarious deconstruction of disney's lady and the tramp , where one character claims the movie's function is to " program women to adore jerks . " there are various romantic pairings , few of which amount to anything . in fact , with the exception of alice , who has principles and ambition , no one in this film is especially likable or intelligent . this is obviously intentional , since it allows stillman to make a cynical , satirical point about what's wrong with society , and how certain problems have their roots in the disco culture . the movie's only obvious misstep is a subplot that involves money-laundering and seems designed to impel the narrative forward toward a resolution it might not otherwise achieve . with a perfect american accent and a demeanor that recalls parker posey , beckinsale fashions her character as the picture of the shallow , vain party girl . by forging an emotional connection with the audience ; sevigny becomes our way into the story . there are also welcome cameos from several cast members of metropolitan and barcelona . stillman may have a message to present , but he does it without preaching , and in such a way that the audience has a lot of fun along the way . there's nothing inherently brilliant about the movie or its theme , but the combination of sharply-realized dialogue and infectiously energetic dance sequences keeps the last days of disco from losing steam . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	hollywood's bad boys are back . the biggest surprise in me , myself & irene is that watching the movie is about as much fun as attending a fireworks display on a rainy fourth of july . most of the jokes fizzle like soggy rockets , but a few do burst in a marvelous display of outrageous humor . the problem with the jokes isn't that they are too offensive but rather that they simply aren't funny . the farrelly brothers certainly acknowledge no bounds . our admittedly sparse audience found little in the picture worth laughing at . indeed the jokes that do work are more cute than outright funny . whereas in there's something about mary i thought i was going to bust a gut , this time i don't recall ever laughing loudly . this leads to some of the film's best humor . hank ends up with an unusual milk mustache in one clever scene . another funny episode concerns his inaccuracy in his morning urination . although i didn't find it funny , his fight with himself is certainly a tour de force of his physical skills . " if you don't put your head to the ground , you'll never hear the buffaloes coming . " the farrelly brothers should have put their ears to the test screening walls more . if they had , they might have heard that the laughs weren't coming as they should on me , myself & irene . me , myself & irene runs 1 : 56 . it is rated r for sexual content , crude humor , strong language and some violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	while you were sleeping is a gem of a movie . while you were sleeping is a romantic comedy and although there is tension and suspense about when peter will wake up and what will he say , it is of minor importance . the chemistry between lucy and jack develops slowly and naturally as it would with reserved characters of that sort in real life . rather than kiss they do some serious " leaning " as they call it in the movie . on the one hand we have a romance that comes alive . on the other hand , we have a comedy full of so many great lines that the audience was in a constant state of mirth . you will have to see the movie to find out how she proved it . the writers also did something unusual . they put in many scenes that were not linked to any other part of the movie . they were there solely to provide some good laughs , and they all worked . my favorite was the paperboy on the ice . the cast did real ensemble acting . it was as if the cast actually was a family . even the character of joe jr . , i thought was well done , and i generally detest characters like that in the movies . one character i wish i had seen more of was the original girlfriend . her character was so outlandish relative to the sweetness of the others that i wanted to see what she was going to do next . the coldness of chicago in winter was a good metaphor for the loneliness of lucy's life . quite a contrast . well done sets by garreth stover and beautiful cinematography by phedon papamichael . i found myself wondering however why they released what was clearly a christmas movie in april . while you were sleeping works because of the excellent direction by jon turteltaub , the witty writing , and the compelling yet highly reserved acting by bullock and pullman . it is rated pg for adult themes . the actors keep all of their clothes on at all times , never say a bad word , and never think a violent thought . i recommend this movie to anyone old enough to be interested in romance , and i award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	kiss or kill is a chaotic-but-pointless exercise in mediocrity . it belongs to the ever-increasing group of post-tarantino road pictures , where a modern-day bonnie and clyde go on the run , mouthing pseudo- clever dialogue while the body count piles up . but , while kiss or kill strives for the relatively modest goal of being an australian true romance , it never quite ascends to that level , remaining instead mired in the pit that claimed titles like love and a . 45 . the first problem with kiss or kill is that there aren't any vital characters . these two are deadly dull , and , despite a few heated sex scenes , there's no evidence of any chemistry between them . in an unsuccessful attempt to energize his film , director bill bennett employs an irritating form of jump-cutting that compresses time . the effect is interesting on the first few occasions when he uses it , but , like a child infatuated with a new toy , he overdoes things . sadly , bennett's stylistic riffs may be the most intriguing aspect of a film that feels gratingly over-familiar . in fact , my complaints about this movie are similar to those i voiced for a life less ordinary , except that picture was somewhat better made . frances o'connor and matt day , reunited here from love and other catastrophes , are appealing performers , but there's little that they , or anyone else , can do with this script , which , by trying to be too hip and kinetic , ends up being simply muddled . there is one great moment , however , and , while it's not worth sitting through the movie for , it will stand out for anyone who sees the film . it begins like something from pulp fiction , with one man explaining why he doesn't eat bacon . bill bennett's last feature was the lifeless two if by sea , and kiss or kill doesn't represent much of a step in the right direction . the films have some plot and character similarities , but the most obvious shared trait is that neither is particularly enjoyable . viewing kiss or kill is more of a trial than a pleasure , and , while it isn't terrible film making , there's nothing here worth getting excited about . even those with a fondness for this overpopulated genre may find that bennett's picture is one too many . " for me , the cinema is not a slice of life , but a piece of cake . " 
1	it goes without saying that no one walks into a film adaptation of a kafka novel expecting something created for general consumption . the trial , however , takes this a step further , as significant portions of the narrative are impossible to comprehend without an intimate knowledge of the author and his works . the book is strange ; the movie , even stranger . the trial is a visually impressive motion picture , with many beautifully framed , gothic-like shots of prague , where it was filmed . kyle maclachlan plays the part of josef k with an icy detachment that makes the character seem all too like another maclachlan personality--that of twin peaks' agent cooper ( odd how the actor seems to gravitate to bizarre projects ) . unfortunately , cooper and josef aren't anything alike , and mr . maclachlan's aloofness creates a schism between the audience and josef--it's difficult , if not impossible , to identify with the trial's protagonist . and what in the world is that on-and-off accent supposed to be ? certain minor themes of the film are easily recognizable--those of the corruption of justice and the dehumanization of society--but the overall message of the trial remains murky . in a key scene near the end , anthony hopkins delivers a lengthy parable that is supposed to clear things up , but this sequence is so cryptic that it can easily leave the viewer even more confused than before . high production values and good acting aren't everything . the film lacks energy , and comes across as a pedantic , obtuse , two-hour nightmare . since the intentions of this film ( and the novel from which it was adapted ) do not come across clearly , " what's the point ? " kafka aficionados will likely find a great deal to chew over , but most everyone else will be baffled and perhaps even a little annoyed . 
2	the talented mr . director : anthony minghella . mpaa rating : r ( violence , brief nudity , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 135 minutes . for the life of me , i don't know why any film-maker would take on the thankless task of literary adaptation . if he is too scrupulously faithful ( see : angela's ashes ) , he risks creating a narrative without its own identity as a film . you don't want to infuriate fans of the source material ( paul verhoeven's starship troopers ) , and you don't want to sacrifice a unique artistic perspective just to get every detail right ( the green mile ) . it is , simultaneously , a can't-miss and a can't-win proposition . if anthony minghella feels that pressure , he sure doesn't show it . he squeezed and compacted the english patient's complex narrative , and came up with a beautiful old-fashioned romantic drama . ripley , he has completely re-made the story's titular morally-ambiguous protagonist . the result may give purists fits , but it's a strangely invigorating piece of psychological suspense . tom , however , finds dickie's life of expatriate revelry far too fascinating to be concerned with much besides ingratiating himself into it -- by any means necessary . minghella's ripley turns tom into something far more than an admittedly fascinating portrait of amorality . minghella combines this twisty characterization with direction that occasionally leans too heavily on visual metaphor . the cues can feel a bit heavy-handed , but minghella can also stage scenes where tension appears in unexpected ways -- a shouted confession unheard , a lingering moment caught in the space between two lies . it's one thing to direct actors well , which minghella certainly does here ( philip seymour hoffman is particularly fine as an icily condescending ugly american ) . it's rarer to find someone who can find all the right notes in character interaction , from the turn of a phrase to the placement of an uncomfortable silence . many viewers are likely to be put off by the talented mr . ripley's less-than-tidy conclusion , which serves as a bookend to the film's arresting opening shot . of course , that's just one of the many ways that anthony minghella risks losing his audience . his interpretation of the talented mr . ripley is undeniably a departure from highsmith , but it's a departure that works the way any thoughtful re-interpretation can work . the talented mr . minghella has fashioned a seductive , sad portrait of a man helplessly watching the loss of his own soul . it may be fitting that tom ripley , master chameleon , has taken on yet another new shape for this version of his story . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	mouse hunt , the first kids' movie from the new dreamworks studio , should come with a warning . later in the review i'll cover some of the picture's questionable aspects . the dark movie opens with a funeral . the house is correctly described as " cold and spooky , " and phedon papamichael's creepy , dark cinematography adds to the fright . asked the kid behind me , clearly upset . ) alan silvestri's whimsical music tries to set a happier mood to the picture . with a doa performance by the two leads , the mouse shows up and almost saves the picture . when the brothers slice off a piece of cheese to put it on a mouse trap , the mouse rolls the entire cheese wheel away instead . the only smart thing they do is hire caesar the exterminator -- smart because christopher walken's militarily precise performance is the only decent one by a human being in the movie . the most imaginative sequence in the film has the mouse running behind the walls , chased by a series of nails being hammered into the wall . needless to say , the kids are apt to be to scared by this scene as it looks like the mouse is about to die a horrible death . first-time movie director gore verbinski , whose background is television commercials , manages to maintain interest in the show's black comedy for about thirty minutes , but after that repetition sets in . the mouse's acrobatics always delight , but banged heads have a limited appeal . as promised , i'll cover some of the inappropriate parts of the movie . first , the tone is extremely dark . in a particularly gross scene , the exterminator eats mouse feces as an investigative technique . in the sexually questionable category are a series of fondlings that occur at the end . these scenes have no place in a pg movie with a theater filled with young kids . ( i checked and was not able to find any other reviewers who have mentioned the movie's questionable parts . how can they be so oblivious to the sensibilities of the movie's target audience ? don't any of the reviewers have kids ? ) the movie ends in one of its few upbeat moments . the ending possesses the intelligent and good spirited humor that the rest of the movie so often lacks . it is incorrectly rated pg and should be considered questionable for kids under 10 . my son jeffrey , age 8 , spent most of the movie so scared that he was shaking , but said he wanted to stay . in the end he claimed he thought the movie was " great and funny . " he went on to say that he wanted to advise parents that " if you don't like bugs or mice or bloody scenes or if your child gets scared easily , don't see it . " his friend matthew , age 9 , said the movie was " a rich and cheesy deal , but it was good . " both of them said they liked home alone 3 much better because it had more action , was funnier and wasn't so gross . 
2	eventually , gresham becomes seriously ill and the movie becomes a terms of endearment ii . there are so many things special about this movie it is hard to know where to begin so let me take a little bit different approach and list them in order with the best first : script many lines poignant , funny , or both . wish i could have written all them down . in one example , winger describes hopkins and her as " lapsed atheists " . it has an excellent ending . the script by william nicholson deserves to win an oscar . i believe this was taken from a play . if so , you should get the play and read it . use your yellow marker to highlight the memorable lines . make sure your marker has plenty of ink before you start . finally , not only was the script excellent , the story itself was a fascinating love story . direction richard attenborough had a clear sense of what he wanted to do . and did it . very moving . acting hopkins was absolutely wonderful . okay , the character had similarities to the one in remains of the day in how reserved he was , but these were different roles . he deserves an oscar nomination for shadowlands . winger played a harsh , honest , strong , complex and yet vulnerable character . her acting range is enormous . excellent performance also worthy of an oscar nomination . actually , the only fault i have with the movie was that winger had trouble staying with her accent . cinematography the cinematography by roger pratt was beautiful and yet not overdone . made you want to go to oxford without overpowering the story and turning it into a travelogue . shadowlands runs 2 : 11 , and i think the editor ( lesley walker ) made just the right choices . if it had been shorter , we might have missed some aspect of two intriguing lives . it is rated pg only for the seriousness of its themes . it would be a great show for anyone old enough to contemplate serious illness . i strongly recommend this to you and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : february 7 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	without pulling any punches , the movie shows the kids in reckless behavior from unprotected sex to drugs to violence . this unrated movie -- it would be nc-17 -- is a powerful anti-drug film since it shows what is possible if you live your life stoned . it also speaks volumes about the story's oblivious parents , who could charitably be called " less than helpful " to their kids . shot handsomely on film , not video , this indie picture has a polish and an accessibility that kids , which i hated , lacked . and the scenes of the teens engaging in one wild sex act after another -- including one with hot wax -- are undeniably erotic . clark seems hell bent on making as realistic a movie as possible , and almost none of the characters are sympathetic . and cheap thrills seem to be what the kids in this story crave . sex with strangers and lots of pot and acid just never seem to be enough to stave off their boredom . the movie is careful to cast average to attractive looking actors who appear to be the spitting images of the kids at your local mall . the actors who play the characters deliver such flawless performances that they don't even appear to be acting . it is chilling watching them . " what do you mean ? " " i don't know , " heather honestly replies . these are a bunch of teenagers whose brains were long since fried . other movies , such as the river's edge , have covered similar material , but few have done it better and more realistically than bully , a movie that you won't soon forget . one of the movie's last images is of marty's brother wearing an ironic " dare to say no to drugs and violence " t-shirt as he looks sadly on what has happened to marty . it is a fitting ending visual . it is not rated but would be nc-17 for pervasive drug usage , strong sexuality , violence and full-frontal nudity . the film is playing in nationwide release now in the united states -- probably for just a short run . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	belle epoque is the movie from spain that won the academy award for best foreign picture . it is a delightful light hearted romance . it is a romantic tale that makes you fall in love with romance itself and certainly , depending on your sex , with the handsome actor and strikingly beautiful and wholesome actresses . also , one of the girls was raised as a boy and does a lot of cross-dressing , but mainly this is pretty straight romantic stuff . the cinematography ( jose luis alcaine ) could easily win awards for its bright earthen colors , and its sharp facial close-ups . on the negative side , there is not a lot here . the directing by fernando trueba was to focus on mood over character development . the script by rafael azcona , jose luis garcia sanchez , and fernando trueba had few memorable parts . belle epoque is more images than substance . ah , but they are wonderful images . very evocative and romantic . i did not like the ending , but it was not essential to the enjoyment of the movie . i suppose i should give it more , but there was only enough here to have me rate it * * 1/2 . i do recommend seeing it . it has very much the overall feel of sirens ( * * * ) , but it is not as good . the movie runs 1 : 48 and is rated r ( but could have almost gotten a pg-13 i think ) . certainly the movie is fine for teenagers . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	a film review by james berardinelli in addition to having real emotional resonance and dramatic sweep , beyond silence ( jenseits der stille ) is one of the best-acted motion pictures of the '90s . inexplicably , despite being nominated , beyond silence did not win the best foreign language film oscar , and it remains unclear how widespread its eventual north american distribution will be . regardless , this is a motion picture that , given the opportunity , no movie-lover should miss . beyond silence has the capacity to appeal to a broad range of audiences , because the subject material is so rich and multi-layered . the film , which takes place in a re-unified germany , is filled with symbolism and thematic depth relating the communications difficulties of one family with those of the nation as a whole . but caroline link's brilliant character study does not dwell overmuch on these intellectually-tantalizing issues . they are there for those who make an effort to seek them out , but the movie exists primarily to satisfy on an emotional level . beyond silence truly involves the viewer ; the characters and situations become so immediate and real that you feel like dancing or weeping with the protagonist . but tragedy is about to strike . filmed with less assurance , attention to detail , and focus on character , beyond silence could have easily turned into an overwrought melodrama or a pathetic " issues movie " championing the cause of the disabled . but director caroline link , making her feature debut , keeps the film carefully on target , never losing sight of the human element of the story . most notably , link draws the audience fully into lara's divided world . later misfortunes tug at the heart , but without a sense of coldly-calculated manipulation . through everything , link avoids the slippery and easily-taken path that would descend into pure melodrama , allowing a certain joie de vivre to imbue the entire picture . and , as icing on the cake , beyond silence ends on the perfect note . the cast is truly international in composition , and it's a tribute to link that the filming process went as smoothly as it did . the most impressive portrayal is split between sylvie testud and tatjana trieb , both of whom play lara . not only are the actresses singularly effective , but they fit together so well that the viewer never loses sight of the character , not even for a moment , when the changeover occurs . mannerisms , facial expressions , and even vocal inflections transfer from one actress to the other . testud and trieb immerse themselves in this role with astonishing results . testud , a theatrically-trained french actress , is appearing in her second film . the rumor is that miramax picked up the rights to beyond silence not only because they wanted to open the film domestically , but because they were intrigued by the possibility of fashioning an american remake . the very thought makes my skin crawl . beyond silence is as close to a perfect film as i have seen this year , and the acting is nearly flawless . it's virtually impossible that any remake could improve upon caroline link's film , and very likely that an english-language version would cheapen the material ( not to mention nullify some of the uniquely- german subthemes ) . regardless of what the distributor ultimately decides , the original beyond silence will receive some sort of release , and , given the opportunity , it is an experience not to be missed . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	waterworld or hollywood goes junk was of the most controversial films of 1995 . waterworld looks like a low budget blade runner goes to sea . how can the most expensive movie ever made look so ugly ? although not near as bad as it seems at first , this is a film with an innumerable list of problems . the script by peter rader , david twohy , and joss whedon is needlessly confusing . watching it is like starting with episode seven of the " the forsyte saga " and trying to decipher what has been happening . i had the same feeling when trying to parse the story in the failed movie dune . the polar ice caps have melted , and the world is all water . the most valuable possession is dirt so that people can grow plants , and the most hoarded commodity is oil for water-skis and boats . he gets to mouth inanities such as , " if i ever see him again , i'm going to cut open his head and eat his brain . " the script dares you to take it seriously while for all intents and purposes becoming a parody of bad science fiction movies . many of the scenes in the show make little sense , and yet for some reason the film begins to grow on you after a while . i am not sure why . perhaps you get sucked into the story . is there dry land left , and if so , how exactly will they find it . maybe it is costner's beguiling little smile . i don't know , but i stayed with it until the end . i did not need to . if you've seen part of it , there is little need to see the rest since it is basically the same . i found the ending a let down and did not care for the way the story was wrapped up . there is one quite magical scene in the film where the mariner takes helen on an underwater journey and breathes for both of them . here the sets finally have some beauty . were that the rest of the film were of equal quality . waterworld runs way too long at 2 : 14 . it is rated pg-13 . there is brief nudity , some intense violence , and some bad language . i was kind of surprised it didn't get an r rating . the show should be fine for teenagers and perhaps for some mature kids ten and over . although the show grew on me , it is too ridiculous for me to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	he proves not only to be excellent at doing housework , but a perfect companion for joon . beyond recognizing that it's a romance , it's difficult to identify exactly what benny & joon is supposed to be since it is liberally sprinkled with elements of fantasy , drama , and comedy . in this case , the reason why is clear . while writer barry berman infused his script with some clever plot elements , a few of which go contrary to the expected norms , he lost sight of two of the three principal characters in the process . apparently , the assumption that joon and sam were off-the-wall was enough for the writer and director . nothing more was necessary - show them as unusual and the audience will accept them . for benny , a " regular " human being , effort had to be put into giving him substance lest the viewers identify him as one-dimensional . the success or failure of a picture like benny & joon relies heavily upon the audience's acceptance of the various relationships . a lack of strong , believable characters undermines the entire story . i never developed a feel or empathy for the coupling of sam and joon and , by the end , i didn't care whether they got together or not . a little whimsy doesn't make a story original , and it certainly doesn't replace solid characterization . benny & joon's selling point is that it's a " romance on the brink of reality . " however , the actual movie isn't nearly as fantastic as the previews lead you to believe . aside from some quirks in sam and joon's personalities , and few unusual scenes , benny & joon is pretty much on the straight and narrow . the actors , saddled by a marginal script and uninspired direction ( the camera angles and lighting in this film are awful ) , do the best they can with the roles . in the case of joon , mary stuart masterson gives a sub-par performance , but this is more likely the result of what she had to work with than the effort she put into the part . whatever the case , joon turns out to be unimpressive and too often fades into the background . depp's performances in several scenes of chaplinesque physical comedy are standouts . aidan quinn , playing the " straight man " does a credible job--so credible , in fact , that he upstages his co-stars , which was obviously not the intent of the story . for the most part , technical details in movies should be invisible to the audience . often , when something stands out , that's because it's done poorly . aside from the aforementioned problems with lighting and camerawork , the editing was ill-considered , resulting in an unevenly-paced , disjointed final product . also , the soundtrack is banal ( perhaps the only tune of interest is joe cocker covering the steve winwood/blind faith tune " i can't find my way home " ) . in general , i try to go into a film with as few preconceptions as i can manage , but i have to admit initially looking forward to benny & joon . needless to say , it came far below the quality level i had hoped for . this is yet another case of a movie preview being superior to the film it represents . benny & joon is too dark to be a good comedy , too shallow to be a good drama , and too " real " to be a good fantasy . as a result , it's certainly not a sterling example of american cinema . 
1	even if you don't like jeff daniels , you've got to give him credit for being a good sport . if there was a hollywood award for the quintessential team player , daniels would be in contention . if charlie can't come to the party , why not bring the party to charlie ? there's just one snag -- while the judge ( austin pendleton ) doesn't have a problem with richard's motion , the prosecutor , elizabeth gardner ( jessica steen ) , does , and the case ends up going to trial with an actor posing as the defendant's lawyer . the script , credited to gregory bernstein , sara bernstein , and cliff gardner , isn't a comic masterpiece , but lynn gets the most out of it . there are several dull patches and more than a few jokes don't work , but these are counterbalanced by some hilarious sequences and a surprisingly winning romance . trial and error is designed as a showcase for the talents of richards , who is best known for his role as the off-the-wall kramer on tv's seinfeld . and , while richards tones down his buffoonery here , there's still plenty of physical comedy involved . both daniels and theron are likable , and they really click together . daniels' portrayal of charlie is just another variation of his usual screen personae ; theron plays billie with an adorable combination of sexiness and sweetness . the result is that this subplot becomes more interesting than the main story , and it's easy to grow impatient during some of the longer , drawn-out court sequences ( not to mention an ill-conceived romantic interlude involving richard and the prosecutor ) . trial and error is reasonably effective for what it intends to be - - a genial comedy offering a change of pace from the mayhem of the fifth element , the lost world , and con air . the structure is a little awkward , but its not hard to overlook this and other problems if you're in the market for several hearty laughs , a few smiles , and an unambitious-but-agreeable time at the movies . 
1	these simple episodes are all admirable but rarely engaging . and , although the movie comes in at a mere 78 minutes , 10 would have sufficed . after about 3 minutes , each of the stories has made its rather straightforward point quite gracefully . the next 20 minutes of each adds little other than needless reinforcement . the mullah , in the story's only memorable line , calls her bicycle , " the devil's mount . " toloui's acting is exquisite , showing her pain and determination with eye expressions alone . it's always hard understanding someone else's religion , but the images shown of islam in this picture give one a feeling of sad repression . and it is the images alone that stay with you after this film is over . the film is in farsi with english subtitles . it is not rated but would probably be a g since there isn't anything offensive . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	and these are just the minor issues . based on the first of a series of best selling novels by jerry b . jenkins and tim lahaye , the story is really about the end of the world as we know it after the chosen few , actually the chosen 142 million -- plus or minus a few souls -- have ascended into heaven . neither as bad you might fear nor as good as you might hope -- see the rapture for a successful picture with similar themes -- left behind : the movie alternately intrigues and baffles the viewers . sometimes watching it makes you think that you need a secret decoder ring to be able to grasp the intricacies of the confusing plot . ( whether detailed knowledge of the bible would clear up many of the movie's mysteries is debatable . ) this painfully true sentiment is like much of the movie , which is overacted but true to its principles . the story has much to say . it is a shame that it couldn't have done a better job of it . it is rated pg-13 for violence and would be acceptable for kids around 9 and up . 
1	when considering a title like two girls and a guy , one can be forgiven for expecting something a little risqu ? . ( in fact , a friend of mine quipped , " i didn't think you reviewed movies like that . " ) add to that the swirl of controversy regarding the film's brush with an nc-17 rating , and it's not unreasonable to anticipate more than a little flesh , and maybe a threesome or two . the movie is far from being a soft-core sex-fest . in fact , this is really just a three-character play featuring absolutely no nudity . it also features almost no story . later , it's true confessions , and it turns out that faithfulness in this twisted triangle is a rare commodity . two girls and a guy survives on acting and dialogue alone . a fair amount of the film , especially downey's solo sequences , appears to have been improvised , and this lends an air of unpredictability to the proceedings . they are creations of the moment , however , with only sketchy histories and little depth . we never learn that . about all we know about the two girls is that carla , the blonde , is beautiful , clever , and has a good heart , while lou , the redhead , is cute , streetwise , and self-sufficient . his favorite song is , not surprisingly , " you don't know me . " to the best of my knowledge , two girls and a guy was never produced on stage , but it could have been . the " action " is 90% talking , and , as with any movie of this sort , the quality of the acting is crucial . both actresses use body language and facial expressions to compliment what they say . his talent is on display here -- he can sing , dance , and act . he can be funny and tragic . also , he appears to be slipping into the woody allen mode of bringing aspects of his off-screen persona into his parts . here , there's a scene where he whispers the following lines to a mirror : " why do you do this ? is this how you want to live the rest of your life ? " it's impossible not to see this short monologue as self-referential . penetration ? gynecological close-ups ? nope . it's because the members of the mpaa have vivid imaginations . never mind that it's not as unsettling as watching several hundred dead bodies bob around in the water like corks ( titanic ; rated pg-13 ) or as disturbing as viewing people getting disemboweled , decapitated , and mutilated by hooks , knives , and other sharp objects ( any horror movie ; rated r ) . most curious of all , not only is the sex scene in two girls and a guy unrevealing , but it's not even especially erotic . for the most part , two girls and a guy is lightly entertaining if you enjoy this sort of movie -- great performances , good dialogue , and a minimal plot . it's more of a comedy than a drama , although the final fifteen minutes feature a peculiar , unwelcome change in tone . with the exception of a strangely philosophical mediation on monogamy , the film's dialogue is surprisingly shallow . most movies like this ( such as the designated mourner ) spend lengthy stretches on deep issues . not so here , where toback keeps the material accessible . all-in-all , two girls and a guy is a has its share of enjoyable moments , but there aren't enough of them to fill up the 84-minute running time . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	" people ask if this film is autobiographical , and many of the circumstances in it are but i've pushed them farther than they really went . it's personal , but not completely autobiographical . it was common in my home and my friends' homes to see no fathers around--and even when they were around they weren't really around . the weird thing about this very common situation is that nobody much talks about it . " my college days aren't so far behind me that i can't recognize a nightmare summer vacation when i see one . and that , amongst weightier issues , is exactly what spanking the monkey is about . if poor ray ( jeremy davies ) ever had any illusions about life being fair , they don't last beyond the first five minutes of david o . russell's debut feature . it's the opportunity of a lifetime--but not ray's , apparently . so much for ray's perfect summer . spanking the monkey is a diabolically dark comedy complete with an insight or two into human nature keen enough to cause a little discomfort . while circumstances aren't taken to david lynch extremes , one has a sense that the director of blue velvet would appreciate what russell has done with his canvas here . the relationships are fascinating to observe and dissect . this is true even considering that all of the characters are too self-absorbed to be especially likeable . spanking the monkey is often funny--and sometimes hilarious--because of its acute perceptiveness . this is not a " nice " movie--it deals with some pretty intense issues ( like incest and suicide ) --but it is both bold and inventive , and works because of an unforced approach . daring us to laugh at some of the blackest foibles of mankind , spanking the monkey ventures into realms that more conservative viewers might label as " taboo " , and emerges triumphant . 
1	ironically , first-time screenwriter mike rich has fashioned a remarkably thin story about a first-time writer . fully three quarters of the movie elapses before it finally gets to the big " plagiarism " incident , which like every twist is telegraphed way in advance . although rich pads the story with many inconsequential incidents , he permits us just one glimpse at jamal's writings . we get no sense of his literary abilities . we are allowed , mainly in practice sessions , to view some of his basketball prowess , but that isn't important since the point of the film , after all , is his writing . brown and connery deliver nice , albeit not exceptional , performances . the easy going chemistry between them has remarkably few rough edges and is a pleasure to watch . and they agree that starting a sentence with a conjunction is a good writing choice even if it does violate some old-fashioned rules . but one shouldn't do it too often . in fact -- you've got to love these coincidences -- it was none other than william himself who put the quietus on the good professor's last book attempt by calling his publishers and advising them not to publish it . let me give you a flavor of the level of predictability in the script . who would you guess will prevail ? other than smile and talk about her rich father -- he fixed it so the school would go coed just so she could join -- paquin doesn't have anything to do . the film works best as a light comedy , and there are many satisfying , albeit small , laughs . generally , the movie aspires to be something more , but its retreaded dialog keeps getting in the way . sometimes it is the small things that trouble you about a production . sure . don't leave before the epilogue . if you like the movie , this epilogue could be the best part . the film , however , left me relatively unmoved . still , it is always good to see connery , and newcomer brown shows a lot of promise . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and some sexual references and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . 
2	thirteen days , starring and produced by kevin costner , depicts this famous period . as a history lesson , it is absolutely engrossing , but , as a movie , it falls short of what it should have been able to achieve . although the film is well worth seeing and clearly gets a hit , with this material it should have gotten a home run . directed by roger donaldson , whose dubious credentials include his most recent films , dante's peak and species , and scripted by david self , whose only credit is the laughably bad the haunting , thirteen days is perhaps as good as could be expected . greenwood's bland performance is emblematic of what is wrong with the movie , namely that it gets itself bogged down in long , slowly paced interior scenes in which the strategy is planned . but when the movie cuts back and forth between the politics on the ground and the excitement of the ships at sea and the planes in the air , the film really comes alive . pointed at the united states , these missiles could reach almost as far as seattle and could kill most american citizens within minutes . it is only partially successful . trevor jones's music for the picture is the old-fashioned melodramatic type . but the acting is generally too reserved . when the director allows emotions to come to the surface , the movie has the impact that it should . thirteen days is definitely a movie with an explicit message . besides the fantastic history lesson , the movie leaves us to ponder the veracity of its anti-military message and to wonder how much revisionist history is taking place . it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language and would be acceptable for any kid old enough to be interested in this period in history . 
1	i'll do anything is unique in movie history , but i'll save the reason for the end of the review . nolte is usually good and he is here , but nothing special . in every movie , i have ever seen albert brooks in , especially broadcast news , he has been nothing less than terrific . in this movie he is okay , but nothing more . to be honest , his part was not well written - too timid or something - so i think he did good as he could . the best part is the child's . she is really cute , and i hope to see her again . the worst part was the script by james l . brooks . it just does not make you care enough about the characters yet all are potentially quite interesting . here he is too timid with his cast as if he is afraid to open up and take a few risks . what is unique about this movie ? it was originally a musical but at the screenings , people hated the songs , but liked the movie . i did find myself unsuccessfully looking for where the musical numbers must have been . i'll do anything runs too long at 1 : 56 . with the missing songs this movie would have gone on forever . it is rated pg-13 , but is pretty harmless show . some movies are great in places and awful in others . i'll do anything on the other hand is extremely uniform albeit highly forgettable . i rated at a constant * * 1/2 and give it a thumbs up if you are looking for a pleasant movie that never taxes your brain . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	chaos . it's the name of the baby in the ironically named beautiful people by first-time writer/director jasmin dizdar , but chaos would have been a more appropriate name for this unappetizing mess of a movie . not 15 minutes into the film and we've already been introduced to dozens and dozens of characters . but thanks to the choppy editing and dizzying handheld camerawork -- is purposely shaking the camera really necessary to attempt cinematic pseudo-realism ? -- the movie is like an incoherent story told by an inebriated guest . get your checklist ready because most of society's ills will make brief guest appearances . but they fly by with such velocity that you'll have trouble pondering anything for long , although you will get the director's point about life being hard and grim . he makes lots of other points too . keep that checklist handy . messages zip by like super bowl commercials . the movie plays fast and loose with plausibility in the hopes of getting some cheap laughs . the filmmaker would appear to have us believe that it is a cultural thing and that the soldier doesn't realize how inappropriate his speech is . it's a tedious film that isn't saved by its moral ambitions . like a rambling preacher , dizdar has a lot on his mind , but his lack of focus and his inability to create fully developed characters means that his good intentions never amount to anything . sometimes less really is more . 
2	the mask of zorro's catherine zeta-jones firmly establishes her star power in entrapment . with a dazzling performance , she dominates the picture with absolute assurance and a bewitching smile . an incredibly beautiful actress , zeta-jones has much more than looks going for her . so intelligent and likable , she's an action star somewhat like diana rigg in her prime . zeta-jones has delicate , ballet-like movements , but her strength , which shines through her every frame in entrapment , is her charismatic confidence . never has a smile possessed more power . cast opposite zeta-jones is someone of equal intelligence , grace , and looks , sean connery . although showing his age a bit , he is still a force to be reckoned with . with great chemistry together , they engage in an acting battle that is as mesmerizing as the story itself . in the end , the old pro is outclassed by the younger rival , she's 30 , but both do themselves proud , delivering wonderful performances . as directed by jon amiel ( copycat ) and written by ronald bass ( rainman and black widow ) and michael hertzberg , the movie concentrates as much energy on the relationships as the action . the action is imaginative and exciting , but it can't compare with the human drama . zeta-jones steals every scene no matter how suave connery acts , and he delivers an excellent performance that is his best in years . the story contains several surprising twists , some of which you'll probably guess and others which you won't . your enjoyment of the picture doesn't depend on your being fooled . the movie will be just about as entertaining even if you figure out every turn in advance . some movies get tripped up by their implausibility , while others thrive , even if one must suspend disbelief . entrapment is in the latter category . in fact , implausibility can sometimes prove an advantage . although all we get to see is her backside , she certainly has an exceptional one . as mac's smart-mouthed assistant , ving rhames provides much of the story's humor . it's a small part , but rhames manages to make it seem larger . the film's only disappointment is maury chaykin , who plays a jabba the hutt clone that should have been eliminated as a bad distraction from what is otherwise a completely satisfying narrative . if zeta-jones continues improving at her current rapid rate of acceleration , by her next movie , jan de bont's the haunting with liam neeson , she should be astounding . it is rated pg-13 for a little violence , sexuality and profanity and would be fine for kids around 9 and up . i would have taken my 10-year-old if i had known how mild it was . 
2	jeffrey is a gay romantic comedy with a very impressive laugh-to- running time ratio . rudnick throws everything at the viewer except the kitchen sink , and if he'd been able to find a way to get that in , he probably would have included it . and , despite all the mirth and mayhem , deep within jeffrey's core is a message everyone can relate to , regardless of their sexual orientation . jeffrey is politically incorrect and proud of it . it dares to joke about aids and poke fun at the closet gay tendencies of certain catholic priests . in no small part due to a tremendous performance by patrick stewart , one such caricature , an interior designer , becomes someone we come to feel for . then the bombshell is dropped -- steve is hiv+ . jeffrey never attempts to simulate real life . if nothing else , rudnick and director christopher ashley know how to keep the audience off balance and in stitches . one of the real treats of jeffrey is watching accomplished thespian patrick stewart , who is in top form as sterling , one of jeffrey's best friends . michael t . weiss is equally strong as steve , and bryan batt plays sterling's aids-infected lover , darius , with the appropriate mix of charm and ditziness . acting-wise , unfortunately , the weak link is lead steven weber ( from tv's wings ) , an actor with solid comic instincts , but who can't handle drama . this becomes a distinct liability as the film progresses , because after the riotous first forty-five minutes , jeffrey wanders into the realm of the serious . you don't have to dig too deeply to find jeffrey's simple message , which is essentially the same as the one put forth by 1992's strictly ballroom : " a life lived in fear is a life half-lived . " ultimately , this is the point of jeffrey , and it's what makes this film more than just a laugh-a-minute riot . 
1	ah , fantasies ! and 2 a . m . , she will be available for his pleasure , but there will be no touching , no mouth kissing , no penetration and no talking about feelings . that these regulations will prove problematic for both is obvious from the start . " you know that , right ? " imagine that ! the movie has an ugly look almost as if they eschewed filming it on digital tape and purposely chose vhs instead . in a movie about sex that chooses to come in unrated , the surprise is that there isn't more , well , sex . for all its verbal and physical explicitness , it is in some ways quite prudish as it completely avoids full-frontal nudity when to show it would have been much more natural . the movie's transparent message is that there's a difference between love and sex -- well , duh ! richard and florence's first sexual encounter ends in laughter , hinting of a realism that never quite materializes . the movie ends up being one big tease . there are a lot of scenes that titillate , but , as soon as they are beginning to be successful , wang cuts away to some pretentious small talk . why can't movies follow through with their convictions ? it is not rated but would be nc-17 for graphic sexuality , nudity and language . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	the story is funny , somewhat romantic , though at times resembling more a tv series like columbo than a movie , but in the end turns back to the private eye genre it started out in . i thoroughly enjoyed this uncanny and inventive caper , except for the unconvincing acting between pullman and kim ( she was too lethargic ) -- which made it difficult for me to get involved with their relationship . zero had a light heartedness about it that was endearing and worthy of that mind solving sherlock holmes genre it so alluringly wanted to emulate , but too lacking in overall integrity to achieve more of an original tone to it , than turn out to be a reasonably witty film , achieved under the direction of the young son of the famous film director . 
0	a pseudo-intellectual film about the pseudo-intellectual world of art magazines , high art is as wasted as its drug-addled protagonists . in the only notable part of the movie , ally sheedy and radha mitchell deliver nice performances in the two leading roles , not that lisa cholodenko's script or direction makes you care much about either character . this does not happen in a single episode , but becomes more commonplace than sleeping in the picture . a typical scene has the editors arguing about whether a potential photographer's work is transcendental or merely classical . that no one has a clue as to the dogma they are spouting becomes obvious but not particularly funny . and the movie , except for the obligatory scene of someone almost overdosing , shows drug usage as being a hip and natural part of the art scene . this vacuous picture throws in a standard downer ending in an attempt to manipulate our emotions . in another movie , it might have worked , but in this one the reaction is likely to be decidedly muted . it is rated r for explicit sex , pervasive drug use and language and is not appropriate for those younger than college age . 
2	cast : dragan bjelogrlic , nikola kojo , velimir-bata zivojinovic , dragan maksimovic , zoran cvijanovic director : srdjan dragojevic producers : goran bjelogrlic , dragan bjelogrlic screenplay : nikola pejakovic , srdjan dragojevic , from war reports by vanja bulic cinematography : dusan joksimovic music : aleksandar sasha habic in english and serbian with subtitles since 1992 , when the war in bosnia began , we in the west have been inundated with images of unbelievable carnage -- photographs and videotapes of scenes so horrifying that we're almost afraid to believe them . like those two movies , this one causes viewers to think long and hard about the real price of war , and leaves a lingering image in the mind that cannot be easily banished . pretty village , pretty flame is told in a non-chronological fashion that makes a film like pulp fiction seem linear . the movie jumps freely across no fewer than four time lines ( 1980 , 1992 , and two different segments of 1994 ) . at first , all of this jumping around can be very confusing , especially before you know the individuals , but , as the film progresses , it becomes clear how powerful this technique is in explaining events and developing characters . the film is a variation of the " trapped in a foxhole " story . director srdjan dragojevic does not spare his audience the horrors of war ( in fact , some of the scenes showing villages burning is actual footage , not a re-creation ) , and those of a squeamish nature may find aspects of this film hard to watch . surprisingly , the most disturbing scene doesn't involve blood or gore . each member of the ensemble cast gives a fine performance , resulting in a group of characters that we understand and care about . gallows humor abounds . dragojevic avoids making pretty village , pretty flame a complete downer by injecting elements of black comedy . the characters laugh in spite of their circumstances , and so does the audience . it's a much-needed form of release . pretty village , pretty flame stirs some deep emotions , and it would be torturous to sit through it without an occasional break from the claustrophobic tension and suspense . the brilliance of dragovjevic's approach is that he understands this need and provides an outlet for it . although pretty village , pretty flame is a much different film from another feature about the war in bosnia , vukovar , both movies share a similar theme about the unacceptable human toll of war . lives are lost , to be certain , but the greatest price paid is the damage done to the soul . pretty village , pretty flame is about finding that which was lost in the most unexpected of places -- dim , decaying tunnel in the shadow of the grim reaper . if you have an opportunity to see this movie , it is an experience not to be missed . 
2	this is the first film made under the label of dogma , a scandinavian film group inspired by the danish director von trier , which insists that their new manifesto on how to make films , be adhered to by those who make films under their label . this dogma consists of improvised acting and hand-held camera work , among other dogmas the film must adhere to . it reminds me most of how godard filmed during his mao stage , but without the apparent overt political messages , as godard's films during the late 60s were anti-film films , replete with diatribes against the bourgeoisie , which seemed filled with the director's hubris and self-congratulation on his political stance , that he was right and others wrong in their beliefs , and his rather tiresome political cliches , that seemed to be more opportunistic than spontaneous , even though every attempt was to make the film appear as if they were spontaneous . to spasse , is a danish term , which refers to those who act like idiots even though they are not . these episodes of spassing give this film an odd look that is guaranteed to turn off a lot people and anger many , especially those who expect more conventional ways of looking at the problems young people face in society . the theme of the movie is certainly obnoxious , it is very difficult to feel much of anything for these middle-class drop-outs , as we first encounter them in action in an elegant restaurant and watch them spasse , retardedly eating their food , under the direction of one of them ( susanne ) , who pretends to be their keeper , while one of them , stoffer , grabs on to a lady ( karen ) , sitting alone , and refuses to let go of her . they do another spassing in a rockwood furniture factory , which was more stupid than humorous and belabored any point that was trying to be made about workers in a factory or about middle-class values , it was goofy in a way to watch them operate , as it seemed to be similar to the way that fraternities might find their inane initiation rites uplifting to their older members who already went through the initiation process to join the group , but to outsiders it would seem like they were seeing a bunch of spoiled children . again , it was not funny , but yet , it was curiously interesting , in a prurient kind of way to see what the interaction was going to be between these two groups of outcasts . i think the point that von trier was trying to make , is that you really have to be an idiot to change the system , or think that you can change it , but that you can only be effective when you really confront who you are , reaching past the point of where authority rules who you are ; or else , you are stuck with the same cultural values you have always had and can't really change who you have been brought up as . being an idiot is the last act of despair . it is an act of courage . and it only matters when you can do it for real and not be using it to play a game . trier has made his point . he has won me over . this very unusual personal film , that is very difficult to warm up to , that mocks what is conventionally thought of as right , by doing what is unconscionable and politically incorrect , becomes only too real and too sad to comprehend , as it is presented so as not to give us a way out in our perception of how to deal with the alienation the youngsters feel , as they seem to be left with only their naive hopes and disillusionments ; and possibly , their emotional experiences that they can value . the film does not end with all loose ends tied up in a nice bow . and whether they reached their inner-self or not , something penetrated them , whether they are the better for this experience , is difficult to tell , but something significant to them did take place , just as we in the audience , whether we liked the film or not , something inside us was moved by what we saw taking place , causing us to react in a way we might not normally act when watching a film ; and , in my way of thinking , that is great filmmaking . 
2	screenplay : david mamet . director : david mamet . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes ) running time : 106 minutes . george for-the-love-of-it's a wonderful life bailey . yes , indeed , waterford is the quintessence of wholesome small-town america , god bless us every one . somewhere between frank capra and david lynch ( by way of woody allen ) lies the world of david mamet's state and main , a movie industry satire that's not really a movie industry satire in its unique , sweetly cynical way . in a more conventional film , state and main would have turned into a broad fish-out-of-water farce about clashes between the worldly and the homespun . mamet chooses to keep those two worlds largely distinct from a narrative standpoint , juxtaposing the film's behind-the-scenes chaos with the reactions of the townspeople to the crew's presence . most of the more straightforward humor comes from the pre-production , with good self-deprecating work by baldwin and parker and hilarious work by david paymer as the film's cutthroat producer . as both writer and director , mamet keeps masterful control over when information is revealed , adding layers of humor at unexpected moments . in their clockwork construction and delightful aura of self-importance , those movie scenes are the stuff of great comedy . but state and main actually works best as something more than a simple razzing of movie folk . the real object of mamet's ridicule is the whole idea of " purity " over which black obsessess in his script . waterford is no idealized hamlet away from the hustle and bustle of hollywood . mamet takes the myth of pop culture as corruptor of ordinary , decent americans and shows ordinary , decent americans in our tabloid- and wwf-obsessed " average american " world plenty ready to be corrupted if given an excuse , thank you very much . that may sound like a terribly dark perspective , but state and main is actually a bit more optimistic . the budding romance between black and white is not just significant in the metaphorical obviousness of their names , but in showing how tough it is to maintain a moral center in any environment . it's also , unfortunately , a seriously weak link . it's nice to see an actor like hoffman get a shot at a romantic lead , but there's something missing from his character to make him a solid center . and while pidgeon is getting better on screen all the time , she still slips into the most jarring examples of clipped mamet-speak . state and main hits its own giant pothole like the one the town continues to ignore , but unlike in the film , it never gets big enough to cause a wreck . mamet's script is too sharp , the performances too strong , and the message too cleverly insinuated . good comedy is rare ; good comedy with something to say is even rarer . welcome to waterford , a little slice of america the way it used to be -- and the way it really is . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	as is probably the case for many of my worldly generation , my defining image of tammy faye bakker isn't even really of tammy faye bakker . it's the image of " saturday night live's " jan hooks doing tammy faye , all squeaky rebuking of demons and freely flowing mascara . tammy faye herself was a caricature , easy to mock because of that heart-on-the-sleeve demeanor and that garishly made-up face on that tiny body . and she was so easy to laugh at . randy barbato and fenton bailey's documentary the eyes of tammy faye is clearly an attempt to rehabilitate tammy faye now-messner's image , made with the full cooperation of the first lady of televangelism . and it's a frequently fascinating character study that puts a truly human face on the much-maligned woman . the eyes of tammy faye is full of the sort of eye-opening tidbits that make a documentary more than a parade of facts , places and dates . there's humor in the clips of a pre-oscar kevin spacey playing jim bakker in a made-for-tv movie , and drama in the machinations of jerry fallwell to force the bakkers out of ptl ( fallwell himself refused to be interviewed for the film ) . all documentaries should be this entertaining . it's also not clear until the film is nearly over that it has spent most of its running time avoiding its most intriguing subject : the present-day tammy faye . the goofy genuineness that emerges in scenes like her reaction to being in a grounded airplane during an electrical storm make for a much more human story than the story of the bakkers' pre-scandal careers . none of that makes the eyes of tammy faye any less worth watching ; in fact , it's almost like two provocative short films effectively fused together . it's also playful ( the babe-esque chorus of sock puppets reading the chapter titles ) , informative and even a little bit inspirational . it's a treat getting to know that plucky survivor , and learning that there's something more than someone else's caricature behind that trademark mascara . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	motion pictures about mental illness can take many different forms . they can be " feel good " experiences like awakenings , powerful dramas like one flew over the cuckoos nest , blood-curdling thrillers like the shining , moronic comedies like crazy people , or stories lacking any foundation in reality like benny and joon . unfortunately mr . jones , the latest in a long line of these movies , falls decisively in the final category . the plot actually might have been kind of sweet if it wasn't so completely unbelievable . it's never difficult to be cynical about run-of-the-mill love stories - most of them lend themselves easily to flippant remarks - but mr . jones is so littered with implausibilities that it's a classic example of something awaiting a skewering . nevertheless , i'll start out with a few kind words : this picture isn't boring and it succeeded in retaining my attention for the unnecessarily-long running time of one-hundred fourteen minutes . those who swoon at the mere mention of a weepy romance will probably enjoy this no matter what i say , as will fans of richard gere . so why is it that in movies , this rule is so often broken ? it happens again here , and for no good reason ( other than that the story would have no place to go without this development ) . libbie has plenty of opportunities to keep things from going too far , but she doesn't act until it's too late . some people have no concern for ethics or propriety . while there's something admittedly compelling about the character of mr . jones , very little about the man makes any sense , and the argument that he has a mental disorder is not a valid excuse for this inconsistent characterization . he's hollywood's cliche-riddled vision of the manic depressive , and he's stuck wandering around in a story that consistently veers towards the preposterous . the central element of the movie , the love story , is something that never should have happened . as a result , its presence creates a dissonance that permeates the film . in far too many movies ( such as pretty woman and final analysis ) , richard gere has marched through his roles zombie-like , with hardly a change in expression and little attempt at passion . in mr . jones , he goes to the other extreme , overacting is a way that is actually enjoyable to watch . sure , this isn't a great performance , but gere is undeniably charming when he emotes this much . lena olin , who was so playfully sensual in the unbearable lightness of being , seems to have caught the stoic bug from gere . frankly , she's incredibly dull , and it becomes a chore trying to sympathize with her character . it's difficult to accept that even mr . jones' white-hot flame could melt through libbie's icy exterior . added to that is the doctor's swedish accent which occasionally renders a line or two incomprehensible ( including a crucial plea to mr . jones in the middle of a rain storm ) . anne bancroft has little more screen time than libbie's cat , and probably doesn't turn in as impressive a performance . what she's doing in this movie is something of a mystery . i often have problems with movies that go for the too-easy , fairy tale ending . mr . jones has all the subtlety of a greek tragedy , and the screenwriters should have treated the concluding scenes appropriately . i won't explicitly reveal what happens , but suffice it to say that this is a richard gere executive-produced hollywood concoction . that just about says all that needs to be said . it has always seemed insensitive to use mental illness as a form of comic relief , and that's exactly what mr . jones does on several occasions . to the film's credit , it tries to balance its presentation of the hospital's residents , but there's something that still smacks of exploitation . after all , when you get to the core of the matter , mr . jones' manic depressive problems are nothing more than a plot device to complicate the romance between the two main characters . see mr . those who enjoy such excruciatingly manipulative experiences like untamed heart will probably come out of this movie spouting words of praise . those who could do without that sort of melodrama would do better looking elsewhere . there's not much of substance in mr . worse movies can be found in abundance , but this one's a little too empty for my taste . 
0	screenplay : james demonaco , gary nadeau . director : francis ford coppola . once upon a time , francis ford coppola was one of the most revered directors in the world , the creator of classic films like the godfather , the godfather part 2 and the conversation , part of an american renaissance of the 1970s which included names like scorsese , spielberg and altman . then came films which politely could be called ambitious failures -- one from the heart , the cotton club , tucker : the man and his dream -- and mixed critical reception for his third godfather film and bram stoker's dracula . it has been four years since dracula , more time to wonder if coppola could once again summon that special something . what he has summoned instead is jack , a frustrating patchwork of slapstick and sentimentality in which almost everything feels forced . at least that's what i think he learns . one of the reasons jack feels so muddled is that it is a film without a clear sense of who its vibrant character is . at other times it appears that jack is supposed to be the character who is meant to change ; he too gets a heartfelt and inspiring speech . diane lane doesn't get a heartfelt and inspiring speech , just plenty of heartfelt looks to tell us that she is learning to be less protective of jack . there is no law which states that only one character in a film can change , but we have to know with whom we are meant to identify , and coppola spends so much time being heartfelt that he fails to provide a definite protagonist . that leaves jack as a message film in which there is no clear message . jack will quite naturally inspire a great deal of comparison to 1988's big , but big was a pure fantasy which never felt the need to underline its lessons . coppola and screenwriters james demonaco and gary nadeau try to incorporate scenes of boys-will-be-boys playfulness ( and who among us hasn't been initiated into a club by lighting our bodily gases or eating disgusting food mixtures ) , as if to tell us " we're just having fun here . " that might be easier to accept if they hadn't also overwhelmed simple moments like jack calculating his mortality with the uberdramatic voice-over , " what do i want to be when i grow up ? jack's ace-in-the-hole would seem to be never-quite-grown-up robin williams in the lead role , but there is something about his performance which feels uncertain . admittedly it is an extremely challenging part -- he's playing not just a 10-year-old , but a maladjusted 10-year-old -- but williams more often seems to be acting like a 6-year-old , just a step away from the baby-talk character he often used in his stand-up comedy routines , while his 10-year-old co-stars often act like they're 16 . coppola certainly knows how to make a good-looking film , with some clever touches like shots of jack's light-up sneakers . but jack usually comes off as sentiment without sense , and comedy without a foundation . once upon a time , francis ford coppola appeared to know all there was to know about making movies . 
0	screenplay : mark rosenthal and lawrence konner . director : barry sonnenfeld . michael j . fox is in a * deep * rut . it's a type that has worked for him , thanks to his charm and comic timing , but it puts him in danger of carrying questionable projects which seem comfortable . as a perfect example , witness for love or money , a cliche-filled would-be romantic comedy that's neither particularly romantic nor particularly funny . his specialty is doing that little something extra for the guests--walking their dogs , acquiring hard-to-get theater tickets--and raking in huge tips for his efforts . if you have to guess which choice doug will make , you haven't seen very many romantic comedies . the point is never whether they'll end up together , but simply how entertaining getting there will be . it starts promisingly enough , with a focus on doug's wheeling and dealing , but once the romantic plot kicks in there's just no energy . there's a lengthy sequence at a party involving mistaken identities and doug trying to hold everything together which was frantic but never really clicked ; after that , the film doesn't even seem to try . the situations are simply tedious . i can't begin to describe how tired i am of that stock " we both care about each other but neither one of us will admit it so instead we'll yell at each other " scene in romantic comedies . there are plenty of ways to establish conflict that actually occur in human life ( or perhaps i and everyone i know have just been lucky so far ) . for love or money uses up most of its best jokes and all of its originality in about ten minutes . i also had many problems with the performances . fox has spent so much time as the cocky young go-getter that he doesn't seem to know how to vary it . he also never conveys when the mild flirtation established early in their interaction becomes real romantic interest , but perhaps a better question than " when " is " why . " gabrielle anwar wanders through the film gorgeous but thoroughly uninteresting , emoting and pouting in ways that would make a high school drama teacher cringe . of the supporting players , only michael tucker as a nebbishy hotel guest is not a complete stereotype . particularly embarrassing are fascistic german hotel manager and a swishy fashion designer , but they are just the most glaring examples of a script that makes all the easy choices , and all the wrong ones . director barry sonnenfeld was a marvelous cinematographer ( miller's crossing ) , but so far only a barely serviceable director . like the addams family , for love or money is too ham-fisted , and sonnenfeld's few stylistic flourishes are lost in slow pacing and mishandled actors . 
1	the first thing you should be aware of about this controversial 1960 political film , shot in b&w by godard's favorite cinematographer raoul coutard , is that it was not shown until 1963 , as it had scenes in it that involved torture and terrorist tactics carried out by both the algerians and the french while waging the algerian war , which did not sit well with the french government that the public be made aware of this . writer-director jean-luc godard ( breathless ) allows his opinions to supercede the story line , making his films sound preachy and him self-indulgent . he often paints big political pictures that easily fall into generalizations . in his political assessments he is just as apt to be artless as he is to be riveting . that is the case in his second feature , the brooding atmospheric " le petit soldat . " godard did not really have a clear position on the war and wavered in his opinions of it just like the film's protagonist does , though probably having a position that was nearer to the one the right-wing had . the film was fun when it had this mixture of lighthearted romantic notions and a dark political mood to it , almost making it seem like a noir film . this results in temporarily turning off the energy the film seemed to have going for it . he says things that range from being inane to having some weight , such as bach is good to listen to at 8 am , mozart at 8pm , and beethoven at midnight . this early , minor work by godard , is a good example of how his films will later on look . le petit soldat suffers from flaws due to its poorly crafted plot and in the director's inability to tell a story that brings out all the dramatic tension . what his aim seems to be , revolves less around plot and more in telling about the stench coming from the algerian war , which is explored through bruno's intellectual musings . godard is most clear in showing that the left and right are two sides of the same coin . he is also innovative in his cinematography , challenging the conventional way of making a film by specializing in jump cuts and quick editing , which give a look of immediacy to the film . this film , thankfully , didn't have all the polemical fire in it that godard's later works had , instead there's much to find here that is enjoyable and i dare say perceptive , especially if you can overlook the director's pedantic ways . writer-director jean-luc godard ( breathless ) allows his opinions to supercede the story line , making his films sound preachy and him self-indulgent . he often paints big political pictures that easily fall into generalizations . in his political assessments he is just as apt to be artless as he is to be riveting . that is the case in his second feature , the brooding atmospheric " le petit soldat . " godard did not really have a clear position on the war and wavered in his opinions of it just like the film's protagonist does , though probably having a position that was nearer to the one the right-wing had . the film was fun when it had this mixture of lighthearted romantic notions and a dark political mood to it , almost making it seem like a noir film . this results in temporarily turning off the energy the film seemed to have going for it . he says things that range from being inane to having some weight , such as bach is good to listen to at 8 am , mozart at 8pm , and beethoven at midnight . this early , minor work by godard , is a good example of how his films will later on look . le petit soldat suffers from flaws due to its poorly crafted plot and in the director's inability to tell a story that brings out all the dramatic tension . what his aim seems to be , revolves less around plot and more in telling about the stench coming from the algerian war , which is explored through bruno's intellectual musings . godard is most clear in showing that the left and right are two sides of the same coin . he is also innovative in his cinematography , challenging the conventional way of making a film by specializing in jump cuts and quick editing , which give a look of immediacy to the film . this film , thankfully , didn't have all the polemical fire in it that godard's later works had , instead there's much to find here that is enjoyable and i dare say perceptive , especially if you can overlook the director's pedantic ways . ozus@sover . net 
2	screenplay : elaine may , based on the novel by anonymous . director : mike nichols . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes ) running time : 143 minutes . it's ironic that klein could tell a story about the effect of scandal-mongering on american politics only by creating a bit of scandal himself , that he could uncover a few brutal truths only by hiding a few . it's even more ironic that the film version of primary colors appears just as president clinton finds himself entangled in new scandals , virtually guaranteeing that most coverage of the film will both miss the point entirely and help make the film's point for it . primary colors isn't simply a chance to giggle at clinton's foibles without naming him . this is a story about giggling at foibles masquerading as serious news , about a political process which has become a seemingly endless cycle of mud-slinging and spin control because we continue to create an audience for it . in that sense , it's a very similar story to the recent wag the dog , though simultaneously more human and more cynical . does it matter that this man who wants to do so much for the country seems to be doing it one woman at a time ? do the ends of getting into office where you can do some good justify the means of slinging even more mud at the opponent than he slings at you ? and how can you make ideas worth anything in a culture where viewers watch an interview with the stantons and can only comment that susan " should wear her hair longer . " primary colors the movie manages to wrap all of the novel's tough questions and roman-a-clef characters into a surprisingly funny and entertaining package . though the running time of nearly 2-1/2 hours feels excessive near the end , director mike nichols crafts so many sharp comic scenes that the film never becomes a tedious political science lecture . he also gets one particularly dynamic performance from a generally solid cast -- kathy bates as libby , the stanton's borderline-loony long-time friend and the campaign's designated " dust-buster " ( because she's " tougher than dirt " ) . though the role initially seems like just a minor variation on bates' brassy , no-nonsense characters in dolores claiborne , the late shift or titanic , libby eventually develops into the real soul of primary colors : the last true idealist , a woman whose very sanity depends on the notion that there has to be a better way to select those who will lead us . of course , another performance will draw far more attention , which is precisely why primary colors couldn't possibly work as well on film as it does on the page . without a face , jack stanton is a complex and sympathetic character study representing a wide-spread problem . as effective as elaine may's script may be -- and travolta's performance , for that matter -- plenty of viewers will simply gape at primary colors in tabloid fascination , thinking of it as the bill clinton story . there's a sad lesson behind the laughs in primary colors , one you'll be able to spot in reviews and reactions colored by the lenses of intern-gate , grope-gate , or any other gate : we're getting exactly the leaders we deserve when we refuse to make their messages matter , and all we can do is throw up an endless series of gates in front of them . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	takuro yamashita , played by koji yakusho from the indie smash hit shall we dance ? , is the japanese equivalent of an average joe , what they call a salaryman . set in the japanese countryside that is rarely shown to american audiences , the film is handsomely photographed by shigeru komatsubara . the scenes of the fishing boats at twilight are particularly striking . they carry a little lamp to cut through the fog , and its light casts a lovely glow . the film , which won the palm d'or award last year at cannes , is directed by shohei imamura . the story contains numerous metaphorical references to takuro's pet eel . the eel runs too long at 1 : 57 . the film is in japanese with english subtitles . it is not rated but would be an r for violence , sex and nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
0	starring : richard gere , sharon stone , lolita davidovich , jennifer morrison , martin landau director : mark rydell producers : bud yorkin and mark rydell screenplay : david rayfiel and marshall brickman based on the film les choses de la vie by claude sautet music : james newton howard released by paramount pictures the meeting of two fateful roads isn't the only intersection dealt with in this movie . too bad that intersection isn't a silent movie , because the concept sounds reasonable until the characters start reciting some truly dumb dialogue . as intriguing as the premise might be , the execution is lacking in several fundamental areas . richard gere is an actor of limited range , and intersection's script demands too much from him . a similar observation can be made regarding his two co-stars , as the performances of sharon stone and lolita davidovich lack strength and consistency . while stone's character is supposed to be emotionally-reserved , the actress gives a one-note portrayal that too often renders sally lifeless . davidovich , on the other hand , overacts whenever a forceful display of emotion is required . regardless of how the actors perform , there's little they can do with the appalling dialogue scripted by writers david rayfiel and marshall brickman . this isn't a case of isolated lines sprinkled throughout ; nearly every scene is bursting with cliches and melodramatic sentences that no real person would ever say . the actors' delivery is the lesser part of the problem . intersection frequently drags . this shouldn't be the case , since the emotional dynamics inherent in this situation should give the movie a momentum independent of its non-standard narrative style . that doesn't happen , however , principally because too many of the flashbacks aren't convincing or interesting . more than any other sequence , this one seems scripted and contrived . then there's the ending , which takes an interminable amount of time to arrive . the last twenty minutes crawl by as we're treated bad melodrama designed to bring tears to the eyes . ironically , this part of the movie is where sharon stone has her best scenes . likability of the characters is also a problem . sally lives beneath a cold , emotionless shell and rarely , if ever , courts the audience's sympathy , while vincent is the sort of self-absorbed person that one wishes an accident upon . if there's a desire to feel sorry for anyone , it's for meaghan , the daughter of these two , yet she appears surprisingly well-adjusted . those who like richard gere , sharon stone , and/or lolita davidovich will find something to enjoy about intersection . the presence of a favorite performer should be enough to eclipse numerous faults . everyone else , even those who generally enjoy teary histrionics , will likely find this a trying experience . in more ways than one , this particular love triangle is out-of-synch . 
0	an old-fashioned " jock " flick , notwithstanding that all the basketball players are white and the game seemed played in slo-mo . this one plays as a moralistic tale about the temptations placed before young athletes , and how the hook goes into them making them succumb to fix games . everything about the story is obvious , and it ends as predictably as it begins . it plays like an old newsreel piece ; a study of a different era that has little relevancy for today . it was second-rate as far as acting and the story line had the stench of a locker room smell all over its reels . 
1	american history x , director tony kaye's vitriolic movie , paints an unflinching portrait of an america filled with uncontrollable racial hatred . starring edward norton as derek vinyard , the proudly racist leader , the film partially overcomes david mckenna's ridiculously vituperative script by the force of norton's performance . the movie is such balderdash that , were it not for the seriousness of the subject matter , one might find it laughable . norton , a chameleon of an actor , sheds the mousy look of his roles in everyone says i love you and the people vs . using the explosiveness he showed in his oscar nominated performance in primal fear , he brings a chilling credibility to the role of a hate monger and killer . in short , he is the reason , and the only reason , to see the movie . without him , the ludicrous picture would be close to unbearable . the movie jumps backward and forward in time with all periods filled with long diatribes of racial epithets . the supporting cast covers all the stereotypes . the manipulative film , when it isn't spewing racial slurs , uses images to toy with our emotions . anne dudley's score for the film is impressive , but misplaced . full of long violin notes and dramatic kettledrums , it strongly punctuates a film that needs some subtly . american history x runs 1 : 57 . it is rated r for graphic brutal violence including rape , pervasive profanity , sex and nudity . it should be considered nc-17 and would be acceptable only for the maturest teenagers . 
0	writer and director carlos saura's tango , this year's oscar nominated foreign film from spain , is a disappointment in just about every dimension -- think flashdance without the flash or drama . tango is two movies , a languid romance that happens off the dance floor and a lackluster dance film , with its the singularly uninspired choreography . rather than sizzle , the best the dancers ever achieve is a small smolder . in a year in which some wonderful foreign films such as thomas vinterberg's the celebration were not nominated , why tango got a nomination remains a mystery . recent pictures like dance with me and even the much maligned but energetic the tango lesson show how naturally dance and film go together . saura's tango , on the other hand , is remarkably flat and lifeless . so much is wrong with tango that it is hard to know where to start discussing it . when the characters aren't dancing , the movie is doa . the scene plays like the cinematic retread that it is . the tango , described as " one body with four legs , " with its carefully controlled , limited movements is made to look easy and trivial . whereas most dance films develop appreciation among the audience for the dances , this one makes the dances feel like they're being done in slow motion . a tango can and should be exciting , the opposite of this film . still , the dances are preferable to the rest of the story . " what a lot of nonsense , " mario says at one point . i couldn't have said it better . tango runs way too long at 1 : 45 . it is rated pg-13 for sensuality and a little profanity and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . 
2	i saw howard stern's movie at the press screening , and i laughed through almost every minute of it . first , let me assure my loyal readers that i have not been cloned . my evil twin is not the one writing this review , and i have not lost my mind . before seeing howard stern's movie , called private parts , i had never seen nor listened to howard stern even for a single minute . moreover , i was absolutely sure that i had no desire to ever see him . i was so sure that his humor would be gross and mean spirited that if there had been a conflict with another press screening , as there frequently is , i would have gone to see the other film instead -- any other film . well , private parts was the biggest pleasant surprise for me in a quite a while . yes , the film is certainly outrageous , but so was airplane ! and yes , howard is shocking . i would postulate that howard stern is one of the funniest and sweetest people around . although i laughed so hard that i even got choked , the biggest surprise for me was how tender and good spirited the show is even at its most audacious . " we never went to ballgames , " reminisces howard . " the only sport my dad liked was yelling . " this gave howard his tough skin and his obsession with being liked . howard's antics , like those of any class clown , are disguised , plaintive cries to be wanted and be popular . needless to say , the audience is so shocked and enraged that they can't take their eyes off the stage . howard's movie isn't just about howard . the film is careful to focus in on his supporting crew , especially robin quivers and fred norris . robin gives a marvelously compelling performance in the film . there are seven words you can not say on the air so he must stop saying them . so what does he do ? ( for example , if i say hoover , you would say dam . this is not used in the movie , but it is the only g rated one i could think of to give you the idea . ) how long does the average listener stay tuned to the same station ? 18 minutes . for howard it is an hour and twenty minutes . well , how about the howard haters , the managers ask , since there are a lot of those ? laments howard . even earning a fortune and having millions of fans , he still worries that people will think he is just a moron . i do not want to mislead you . the show manages to insult just about everyone . still , the humor is non-stop , and based on the theater audience's reactions , people respond extremely well to his jokes . go with an open mind , and you may not be able to control yourself . howard's film raises comedy to a new level . i will reject the urge to recount more of the film's crazy antics and let you experience it yourself as i did . as i left the theater i began to recount my favorite scene to my friend i had taken with me . as soon as i laughed my way through one , i kept remembering another that was even better . if the film had had one tenth the humor or one fourth the likeableness of its stars , i would have counted it a success . the movie it most reminded of was people vs . larry flynt , but i liked private parts better . an incredible and unique experience . an infectiously happy show . howard teaches us to laugh at everything in life . a more likable group i haven't seen in a long time . it is rated r for strong language , dope smoking , crude sexual humor , and nudity . teenagers will probably love it , but make sure they are mature enough for the material . i give the film my strongest recommendation and my top rating of * * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	giant makes for an interesting case study of a " classic " american motion picture . and giant's reputation , which is based in part on a host of positive reviews and 10 academy award nominations , greatly exceeds its actual quality . big , sprawling , and more than a little sudsy , giant might have been remembered as little more than a lavish , big-screen soap opera , except for one thing -- released posthumously , it was the last feature appearance of icon james dean . the restoration of giant , using the technicolor dye transfer printing process , was a colossal effort , and the results are impressive . there are a number of noticeable variations in color and contrast , but the print is clean and glitch-free . however , unlike several other recent restorations ( like the wild bunch ) , no edited scenes have been re-introduced . although giant offers a solid evening's entertainment , it falls short of true brilliance . an epic storyline is not inherently great . when compared to some of the transcendent films of the era ( for example , those of bergman , kurusowa , ray , and kubrick ) , giant's limitations become apparent . because of the mystique surrounding dean , the movie has achieved a stature out of proportion with its actual virtues . the handling of racial intolerance is similar to that of john sayles' recent lone star . in giant , although the approach is tinged by perceptions that are forty years out-of-date , it's still surprisingly acute . giant is often referred to as " a james dean film " , but , based on screen time , dean gets third billing . the movie's portrait of jett is incomplete , but what we see is intriguing . ultimately , his life is an ironic tragedy , and dean effectively conveys a certain degree of his bitterness and world-weariness . however , jett's plight doesn't connect with the audience on an emotional level . we understand it , but aren't moved . she's the one truly " good " person in the film -- a woman of strong , undeniable principles who seeks to bring reform to riata , despite the odds . yet , even though the story is told from her perspective , the most complex character is bick , who shows a wide spectrum of human vices and virtues . he can be sweet and loving or cold and cruel . hudson's performance is exemplary . giant stops short of lionization , however , taking a number of sharp , cutting jabs at the insular arrogance of many traditionally-held beliefs . in the end , we're left with the impression that texas is changing , but far too slowly , and not always for the better . hollywood doesn't make films like giant any more -- big , melodramatic epics that place storytelling above time constraints . aggressive editing could have shortened giant considerably , but the three hour twenty-one minute running time permits the tale to breathe . so , although giant may not be a classic in the purest sense of the word , it's a fine example of a virtually-extinct genre . -- ingmar bergman 
0	warner oland's final appearance as charlie chan is marred because this is one of the weaker episodes in the long running series . the story was too muddled and not too crisply executed . for comedy , lee's misuse of french leads to some embarrassing situations and joubert's choppy english and inflated pride in his bumbling police department leads to some amusing moments . 
0	a terribly unreal end of the world film , even though it is laced in the everyday world of a family drama . it's a thriller stressing supernatural shocks and fuzzy apocalypse dramatizations , that has the cast trying hard to be convincing about all the hokum presented of bloody rivers in nicaragua , dead fish in haiti as the sea boils , of birds falling from the sky , the earth shaking , ice in the israeli desert in the same place as sodom , and hailstones on fairfax ave . if i said hard to believe , i really mean this film was so ludicrous , that it was impossible to believe . the film was so dreadfully out of touch with its own story , that it kept piling on different situations which only made its far-out story even more implausible . lack of clarity became the only clear thing about the film . the film lacked a decent script , meaningful acting , and credible direction . it is a silly film -- but not one that was funny in a campy way . the film's moral message that the world can be saved with hope , seemed like mush . 
2	that includes the best-known pre-1997 titanic film , a night to remember , and the book of the same title upon which it was based . those who take the time to sit through the earlier movie's account of the story will find that it is at once both like and unlike the epic romantic tragedy brought so successfully to the screen forty years later . the temptation is , of course , to compare the two films , but that would be as profoundly unfair as trying to analyze the similarities and differences between gone with the wind and gettysburg just because both transpired with the same historical event as a backdrop . the special effects are among the best ever brought to the screen , turning the final hour into nothing short of a cinematic tour de force . a night to remember , on the other hand , is a more reserved motion picture . it uses historical characters to tell the real story , relying on the first-hand accounts of survivors for nearly every sequence and line of dialogue . the romance is gone , but there's still plenty of adventure and heroism , and a subplot excised from titanic that deepens both the tragedy and the suspense . finally , although the visuals are not nearly as impressive , they're good enough to allow us to suspend disbelief and become thoroughly immersed in the story . a night to remember is presented with such austerity and unflinching impartiality that it occasionally fools us into thinking that it's a documentary , not a work of fiction . in fact , director roy baker and producer william macquitty were so committed to telling the genuine story of the disaster that they would probably both consider that statement to be a compliment . few aspects of the historical record were compromised during the novel-to-screenplay conversion . a few individuals were bundled into " composite characters , " certain events were modified to heighten their dramatic impact , and the sinking ignored the fact that the ship broke in two during its final moments . other than that , the story told by a night to remember is pretty much how things happened ( at least as far as we know ) . since no footage exists of titanic's actual launch , the film makers spliced together archival material depicting other , similar ships , including the queen elizabeth and the lusitania . to all but the expert eye , this will not be noticeable . during the course of the film's 123-minute running length , we meet a number of interesting figures , many of whom did not live to tell about the fateful ocean crossing . with so many characters , it's no surprise that there's little time to identify with any of them ; a night to remember tells of an event without becoming particularly wrapped up in the lives of anyone affected by it . the film makers used still shots of the original ship when re-creating the decks , the first dining saloon , the forward stair case , and the smoking room . and all outdoor scenes were filmed in cold weather so that the actors' breath could be seen . these are aspects of the entire event overlooked by cameron , and their presence deepens the sense of irony and desperation . if there's a weakness to a night to remember , it's that the special effects are limited by the technology of the era . they're not bad per se , but , after seeing cameron's titanic , it's only natural to expect something a little more impressive than an overlit model floundering in a large pool of water . there's no doubt that this approach works within the context of the movie , but it's virtually impossible to watch the scenes of the ship sinking without recalling the grandeur of how it went down in 1997 . perhaps the best way for titanic fans to view a night to remember is as a companion piece -- more factual than any other feature produced about the event and more absorbing than any of the lengthy , dry documentaries about the subject . of course , a night to remember is good enough to stand on its own ( many critics will argue that it's a better film than cameron's epic ) , but it works differently when seen side-by- side with its gargantuanly-budgeted sister . the truth is that the tale of the titanic is big enough to be seen from many different vantage points , and 1997's titanic and 1958's a night to remember offer two of the most compelling perspectives . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
0	a routine mystery story with a misleading title . this low budget film is watchable , but do not expect anything more than that . 
2	this film illustrates that the power of motion pictures isn't always about taking us to strange worlds or putting us in the path of an enraged dinosaur . instead , it can be something as simple-yet-profound as opening our eyes to how different people survive in the real world . the title character in ulee's gold is a beekeeper who lives and works in the florida panhandle's tupelo marshes , and , although this is a narrative feature , not a documentary , it taught me a great deal about the difficulties of harvesting of honey . yet , as important as honeycombs and beekeeping are to the story , they are not the central focus . ultimately , it's this aspect of the film that makes it compelling ; the honey-making stuff is an added bonus . with ulee's gold , peter fonda reminds us that he is capable of much more than making quirky cameos in the likes of love and a . 45 , bodies rest and motion , and escape from l . a . this is a subtle , nuanced performance that brings to the fore all of ulee's pain and uncertainty , then hides it beneath a carefully-constructed facade . fonda shows us a man who wants to relate to those around him , but is no longer sure how . it's fitting that ulee bonds with his daughter-in-law and granddaughters amidst the bees and honeycombs . supporting fonda is a cast of fresh and familiar faces . as ulee's granddaughters , vanessa zima ( the babysitters' club ) and newcomer jessica biel give strong , unaffected performances . nunez's script is thoughtful and intelligent , and it challenges his actors with fully-formed personalities for them to breathe life into ( peter fonda , in fact , called ulee " the best character i've ever read " ) . the highest compliment i can offer ulee's gold is that it plays more like real life than a movie . 
0	chris roberts's wing commander is a cinematic black hole that's liable to suck your brains out as you attempt to decipher its impenetrable story . first-time director roberts , who " directs " the movie based on his video game , clearly seems to be working in the wrong medium and doesn't have much of a clue as to how to stage a motion picture . writer kevin droney , who also adapted mortal combat for the big screen , creates a movie so confusing you need a manual to be able to follow it . you can score the movie as you watch it . give yourself 100 points every time you figure anything out . and give yourself double if you care . don't feel bad if you find you can't make a single point as that will be a common score . their motto is " if you die , you never existed . " the " special " effects in the movie are only a small cut above the old buck rogers's serials . the fighters look like three-inch pieces of old metal with bunsen burners for propellants . you do have to give the actors credit for keeping a straight face through it all , no matter how inane the dialog . my son , who is a fairly savvy and generally quiet moviegoer , whispered to me about a dozen times during the movie to see if i could figure out what was happening . each time i answered him honestly , " i have no idea . " as i was forced to endure this stupefyingly dull film , i began to develop various theories about it . perhaps , the speech was encrypted , and our theater didn't have the right decoder module . i tried watching the actors' mouths move since another theory of mine was that the movie was originally in a foreign language , and the problem was a bad english dubbing . well , the movie doesn't have to worry about emotion . there isn't a single character in it that creates one scintilla of interest or sympathy . don't see the movie ; rent the video game instead . no video game imaginable could be this terminally boring . it is rated pg-13 for sci-fi violence , profanity , sexuality and sexual innuendo and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 10 , said he couldn't understand most of the movie since it was confusing and didn't make any sense . his friend nickolas , almost 10 , said he liked the film because of the action and gave the movie * * * * . 
1	tango is a romantic musical , supposedly influenced by fellini's 8 1/2 , with political overtones to its otherwise almost mirthful mood , that is , for a saura film . saura accomplishes his musical numbers with a rather terse storyline , which means that if you don't care for the tango , you could find yourself bored with this slow-moving story . what is exceptional about this film , is how superbly choreographed and stunningly colorful and visionary a spectacle it is , as its cinematographer is the great vittorio storaro ( last tango in paris ) . one of the tango masters , explains to us that the tango is excellently done when experienced dancers can perform it , so there is one body and four legs in motion . there is lots of innovative dancing and , by mario , there is lots of deep brooding thought about life and what must go into the film to make it arty . we see see a wind machine and the next thing we see is a sultry tango being performed , sets are designed out of seemingly thin air , there are color filters for dance numbers created on the spot , a west side story look alike number is shown with all male dancers . the dancing is good enough to carry this film alone . but the story , that's another story , it just didn't seem that important , including the nebulous surprise ending , which in actuality , detracted even further from the slight storyline . the mood the musical numbers set was so convincingly dreamlike , that for someone like me , who was born with two left feet , i felt like going to a ballroom and trying this elegant dance , even if i never danced the tango before . the dancing remains in my head , and that is what cinema can do to you when it is so stunning to behold . 
2	it is an elegantly sentimental work touching on the rituals observed on an army post . those were indeed more simplistic times , but not totally out of the realm of how some modern day soldiers may feel . the twists in the story line come from the quirks the characters display not from the story itself , which is rather ordinary : the comraderie between the captain and the very irish top sergeant ( mclaglen ) , who likes a bit of whiskey and adds comic relief to the stodginess of the army routine , fits in with the buddy theme of many ford films . a virtue that is considered essential for any character in a ford movie , that he really cares about . it adds to the feeling that the past cannot be ignored . winton hoch , the cinematographer , won an oscar for the visually memorable mesas and haunting loneliness of the monument valley landscape , which was used as the film's location sites . it provides the film with an epic scale of the country , as there is a melancholy intermingled in those vistas with a sense of reverie for the men who are so far away from civilization , surrounded by the red sand and barren mountain peaks , yet are greater practitioners of civilized etiquettes than even the citizens back east , through their daily obediance to rank and order and their need to socialize by formal dance and their chilvary toward women , which might seem old-fashioned but is pleasantly accomplished here . what pulls the film together and gives it a raw power , is something that can only be ascertained by accepting ford's premise that it is absolutely necessary what the men do and that they are in the right . to scrutinize this film in any other way , is to lose track of what direction the film meant to be going . to add color and more sentimentality to the story , there is the theme song of the yellow ribbon , played countless times , either to the immense pleasure of most viewers or to some , to grate on their nerves . the calvary should follow them to their reservations , but stay out of sight so the indians wouldn't be humiliated by the men watching them . this is ford's look at the west and the cavalry men he adores so much . perhaps the scene that summarizes the film's intentions best , is when wayne is given a solid silver watch by the men for his retirement , and the presenting of the gift and the accepting of it , are met with a few well-chosen words , each weighed heavily with an aura of mutual respect , almost bringing tears to wayne's and the audience's eyes , as he reads the inscription that you know means so much to him . if you can see that as a glorious and magnificent scene , you will have , most likely , fallen in love with this grand and lyrical film . but if you don't , you can still be swept away by the eloquence of the film and its call for some kind of majesty of action one should have , in this beautiful , god created country , that ford believes has room in it for everyone who acts civilly . 
1	screenplay : tom s . parker & jim jennewein and steven e . de souza . director : brian levant . i decided to try something different for the flintstones . i put aside my critical notebook and tried to clear my mind of all preconceptions : the thirty-two writers who worked on the script ; the mind-numbing marketing blitz ; the dread at the appearance of yet another tv retread . and i resolved to let it be what it would be , to tell myself , norman vincent peale-like , " i will enjoy this film on its own level . " do you know what ? it almost worked . as silly , clunky and repetitive as the flintstones may be , it's still something of a guilty pleasure , at least on a visual level . while it's no film for the ages , neither is it a modern stone-age travesty . it's tempting to call the flintstones imaginative , but there really wouldn't seem to be all that much imagination involved in directly transferring the animated series to live action . every house , every costume , even every sound effect is instantly recognizable to anyone who grew up with " the flintstones " either in first run or syndication . of course , that is the logic behind the glut of tv-based films : bring in that elusive older audience with the nostalgia/recognition factor . if my audience was any indication , it's working with the flintstones . while the kids screeched with delight at the slapstick , the biggest laugh from the adults was reserved for rosie o'donnell's pitch-perfect duplication of betty's trademark giggle . i generally found myself entertained while i took in the production design and admired its whimsical authenticity . there is , however , one major problem with the casting , and it comes as quite a surprise . physically , he pulls his punches more often than not , as though he didn't understand just how far overboard he should go in a live action cartoon ; in his delivery , he struggles with the blustering voice originated by alan reed , and appears to be re-routing it through jackie gleason ( whose " honeymooners " character ralph kramden was the model for fred flintstone ) . goodman's relatively weak fred unfortunately overshadows his solid castmates . rick moranis is an appealingly amiable barney , and rosie o'donnell , while not ideal physically as betty , had the mannerisms down pat . and it may be worth the price of admission just to see elizabeth taylor , as wilma's mother , tied up and gagged and lying on the ground . one interesting by-product came out of seeing the flintstones : i realized that i had under-appreciated the addams family films . like those films , the flintstones primarily offers as its humor variations on a single theme . but the addams outings at least seemed occasionally inspired ; the flintstones is content just to show up and toss off the expected " rock " and " stone " puns . this is especially disconcerting when a flintstones franchise may be as close to a sure thing as there is in hollywood . the first time around , the flintstones' visuals are a light-hearted kick , but there's nothing more to do . i could write that sequel given a day and a half . . . 
1	screenplay : toby emmerich . producers : bill carraro & toby emmerich and hawk koch & gregory hoblit . director : gregory hoblit . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( adult themes , violence , profanity ) running time : 118 minutes . just when i thought i'd seen every possible spin on the serial killer thriller , here comes frequency to show that there is something new under the sun . time-travel tales are inevitably head-scratching affairs if you ponder them for too long , and frequency is no exception . it's an utterly preposterous conceit , of course , but it actually works . caviezel never once smirks at the material , resulting in a performance full of convincingly pent-up emotion . director gregory hoblit's staging of john's new montage of memory is surprisingly affecting ; caviezel's work as a man re-discovering his father is better than you have any reason to expect in a genre film . now , did i mention that this all turns into a serial killer thriller at some point ? hoblit and screenwriter toby emmerich might have chosen to explore the ramifications of continuing to mess with history , but that would be a bit too philosophically deep . frequency is a genuinely snappy piece of film-making , far and away the liveliest work from hoblit ( who got bogged down in the grim subject matter of primal fear and fallen ) , even when you're inspired to a round of " yeah , right . " there's no question that much of frequency is smart and entertaining , but it's also a fragmented piece of work . for the first half of the film , it's a fantasy with a strong human side , anchored by an unconventional but convincing father-son relationship . in the second hour , it shifts dramatically to a creep-show , with the sinister killer popping up at terribly inconvenient times . that makes for some crowd-pleasing chases and struggles , but a terribly rote plot progression . though there are still some well-crafted scenes -- andre braugher gets a particularly good one as a cop friend of frank's watching a world series prediction come true -- character ceases to matter for all practical purposes . the strange thing is that it probably wouldn't have felt nearly as overwrought if frequency had stuck with the tone of its first half . the shift from character piece to thriller is jarring enough ; the attempt to shift back to character piece feels like an unearned piece of manipulation . it's easy to recommend frequency for the things it does right in each of its incarnations , but the recommendation can't be too enthusiastic when those incarnations are so incongruous . i think there's a reason we've never seen this sort of serial killer thriller before : it's awfully hard to make a serial killer thriller a tear-jerker as well . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	warning : spoiler in the next paragraph . the film ends with a long kiss between the japanese-american detective and the white artist , making a loud statement that it's fine that the heroine prefers someone of a different race . it's a satisfactory fuller work , that is lurid while also reflective of the racial divide in the country . in his gritty way , fuller hammers home the point of the need for racial tolerance and that there's urban alienation out there to deal with . the problem with the film , is that the mystery story was never developed and seems included as just an afterthought . 
1	don't worry , you'll feel right at home since it is a retro future in which flashlights and many other technologies haven't advanced at all in almost two centuries . the movie's unluckily possessed humans , a group of miners , look like members of the heavy metal band kiss . those going in hopes of the over-the-top fun of carpenter's last picture , vampires , will leave disappointed . here the action is merely ridiculous without the energetic fun of vampires . still , after a lifeless first act , the movie does pick up the pace in the middle . the result is an uneven movie that's much less hit than miss . as desolation , ice cube's lack of acting talent turns into an asset , making his stilted dialog come across as campy wit . the barbs they trade put enough needed life into the movie to make you hope that it will finally take off , but it never achieves lift-off . although some of the drug usage in the story looks a bit too inviting , one scene could serve as an excellent public service announcement against drugs . it is a sickly funny scene that becomes one of the more memorable incidents in a movie whose memory has a half-life measured in minutes . it is a joke in which you know the punch line before it's delivered . most of the movie is like that . ghosts of mars at least has the good sense to run only 1 : 38 . it is rated r for " strong violence/gore , language and some drug content " and would be acceptable for older teenagers . in the silicon valley , it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	cast : woody allen , judy davis , elizabeth shue , kirstie alley , bob balaban , hazelle goodman , eric lloyd , billy crystal , richard benjamin , demi moore , julie louis-dreyfus , stanley tucci , robin williams director : woody allen producers : jean doumanian screenplay : woody allen cinematography : carlo di palma u . s . distributor : fine line features deconstructing : to write about or analyze in a way that questions traditional assumptions about certainty , identity , and truth , asserts that words can only refer to other words , and attempts to demonstrate how statements about any text subvert their own meanings . this is undoubtedly one of the questions likely to be foremost in any viewer's mind after watching allen's 1997 feature , deconstructing harry . it's also the question most often asked of the director in interviews about the film . allen has been understandably evasive , stating repeatedly that , while there may be some similarities between harry and himself , the movie is a work of fiction and harry is nothing more than a character . of course , it could be argued that artists , regardless of whether they're authors , painters , or movie directors , aren't always aware of the full ramifications of what they create . it seems clear that allen is doing a little more with deconstructing harry than simply telling a funny story . or is this a none-too-subtle jab at all the critics who want to inextricably entwine allen's real life with his reel life ? the truth is , it's probably a little of both . of course , this makes deconstructing harry sound like a deeply philosophical movie , which it isn't , and the seemingly-pretentious title only adds to the confusion . but the film is appropriately named . deconstructing harry doesn't tell a straightforward or linear story . instead , it uses a fairly unremarkable plot as a springboard for comic vignettes that gradually answer questions about harry's identity . like the layers of an onion , the folds of his life , both as told through " true " flashbacks and " fictionalized " accounts , are peeled away , offering a clear picture of the man -- and it's not a pretty one . since he's played by woody allen , he's also an insecure and self-absorbed individual , as well . he's thoroughly dislikable , and one of the film's failings is that it occasionally tries ( unsuccessfully ) to sympathize with him . harry is best viewed from a distance . all this might sound confusing , but it's really not . allen's script isn't linear , but it isn't difficult to piece together . the intent is to amuse , not to confuse . however , aside from piquing the viewer's curiosity about how much of allen is in harry , there's not a whole lot of depth to deconstructing harry . it's a movie of moments , some of which are side-splittingly funny . arguably , this is the most uproarious comedy that allen has ever done . the dialogue is almost always as brilliant and witty as it is profane . there are as many genuinely funny one-liners here as in any other movie this year . then there's robin williams , who , in a cameo , has never been so delightfully out of focus . deconstructing harry is an uneven piece of work , but the high level of comedy covers up many of the rough spots . allen fans won't confuse this latest outing with the likes of the purple rose of cairo , annie hall , or crimes and misdemeanors , but it's good to know that the director can still poke fun at himself , despite his tarnished image . we may never know how much of this film is pure fiction and how much is self-analysis , but one thing is for sure -- once the laughter has subsided and the end credits have rolled , audience members will begin deconstructing woody . - ingmar bergman 
1	director : jenniphr goodman . yes , it's another independent film about hyperarticulate-yet- underemployed guys in need of a lot of growing up . first dates beware : this may get you into deeper discussion than you'd like . the result is a love story that's as smart and entertaining as it is utterly predictable and instantly forgettable . that humbling occurs during a climax that takes contrived to a new level , a genuinely clumsly conclusion to an otherwise generally satisfying story . it's testimony to the effectiveness of the tao of steve's punch lines -- instantly quote-worthy though they're not -- that the film overcomes its erratic pacing and limp climax . and it probably helps to be an alum of the school of hyperarticulate-yet- underemployed guys to appreciate the minor charms of a film that's equally comfortable tossing off references to kierkegaard and " the bugaloos . " see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	the first thing to note about waiting to exhale , forest whitaker's theatrical feature debut as a director , is that it will likely be a huge success with its target audience . many black women will see themselves in this motion picture , and , subconsciously using their personal background to fill in gaps left by the screenplay , they will declare this film a triumph . i wish i could be as positive with my opinion , but i found waiting to exhale to be seriously flawed -- a string of connected vignettes that propel the four main characters along easily predicted character arcs . of the quartet of stories , bernadine's is the most compelling . it's no coincidence that this character is played by angela bassett , the best actress in the cast . needless to say , bernadine doesn't react well to this news and her response -- torching his car with all his possessions in it -- will almost certainly garner loud cheers from women in the audience . although not as interesting as bernadine , loretta devine's gloria offers some worthwhile moments . waiting to exhale's other two characters -- savannah ( whitney houston ) and robin ( lela rochon ) -- are basically separate aspects of the same personality . neither of these stories is of more than passing interest , and the movie slows to a crawl when houston or rochon takes center stage . whitaker's direction , like the tone , is uneven . some of the switches from comedy to drama are forced and abrupt . that said , however , waiting to exhale contains a fair number of genuinely humorous sequences , many of which make pointed comments about male insensitivity . there are also several memorable serious scenes , the best of which team angela bassett with wesley snipes . not only does this pair sizzle , but the dialogue is intelligently-written and the performances are on- target . the most significant fault in waiting to exhale is its character presentation . with the exception of bernadine , i never felt anything for the women populating this film , as they failed to capture my interest or sympathy . part of this can be attributed to bland performances by houston and rochon , but the script must bear an equal share of the burden . no doubt about it -- this is a " women's movie " ( or , as it's alternatively referred to , a " chick flick " ) , but it's among the year's weakest . of all those films , however , this one has the most artificial and disjointed " feel " . personally , i don't buy the " male bashing " accusation that has been leveled at waiting to exhale . the treatment of men in the movie seems fine , and there are other problems more worthy of attention . given the dearth of significant roles for black women in motion pictures , it's refreshing to see these four bonding on the big screen -- and that's almost reason enough for this film to have been made . nevertheless , it's difficult to deny that another layer of substance is needed to lift the movie about this superficial level of melodrama . 
0	the birdcage is a well constructed one joke movie that audiences seem to love and that some critics like and others don't . this critic admired robin williams's performance as well as some of the minor actors , but found the film's depiction of gay people more insulting to them than funny . then again , perhaps i am too sensitive or maybe i just want more from a movie than caricature . the birdcage is based on the french film la cage aux folles . although the other male singers in the club are quite convincing as females , albert isn't and looks more like a male actor trying to play a transvestite . this is consistent with lane's performance . although i found williams believable as gay , lane overacted so much that i never found his character believable . the screen adaptation by elaine may ridicules senator dole by name many times in order to make the movie topical and to make sure that audience knows they are serious about the republican hypocrisy point . let's cut to chase . the reason i do not like the show is the repeated single joke . every time he hits the pinkie , the audience roars . in general , every exaggerated gay behavior sends the audience wild . i found the antics demeaning to gays and highly repetitious . the audience gets to laugh at him a lot , and i do mean " at " him , because he can not walk in shoes without falling on everyone and because he is portrayed as both a stupid character and one whose sole , supposed charm is that he has a strange accent . this character is the most insulting of them all . director mike nichols should have been ashamed to have used such cheap shots . there are some lines i liked . albert , trying his best to act macho , answers in an attempted deeper voice with , " how do you think i feel ? there are two aspects of the show that deserve special mention . full of bright colors of limes , yellows , and roses . the costumes , especially those of armand's done by stephen shubin , are both outlandish and visually compelling . there is one actress in the movie that plays the secretary to val's biological mother . she is not listed anywhere on the web , which really bothers me . i know i have seen her somewhere before but i can not figure out where . if anyone knows , i wish they would drop me a line . she has a trivial part in the film , it is just that i can not figure out where i saw her before . the birdcage runs a little too long 1 : 58 thanks to editor arthur schmidt . the film is rated r for some mild language . there is no sex , nudity or violence . the film should be fine for teenagers . although i do not recommend this show , i should point out in fairness that my wife liked it and was laughing right along with most of the rest of the audience . i suspect the film will make a bundle . i give the movie * 1/2 for william's performance plus the well done minor performances of flockhart and wiest , but i found little worth rewarding in the rest of the cast and found the script demeaning to gays and insulting to republicans . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	screenplay : david h . franzoni & john logan and william nicholson . producers : david h . franzoni , branko lustig and douglas wick . director : ridley scott . mpaa rating : r ( violence , gore , adult themes ) running time : 154 minutes . " i am just an entertainer , " sniffs one character to another late in ridley scott's gladiator . the comment is intended as counterpoint to the hero's moral courage and desire to right wrongs , but it also rings an all-too-familiar chord as the movie season heads into its " summer event " phase . how often have brain-dead films been defended with a sniff that it's " just meant to be entertaining ? " how often has " entertainment " in the blockbuster era been defined as " tens of millions of dollars thrown at a production that began without a completed script ? " critics cringe as the first of may draws near , knowing that a cadre of hollywood film-makers who consider themselves " just entertainers " will be spewing forth grotesquely inept stories peppered with explosions and digital effects . with such images in mind , i shouldn't diminish gladiator by tossing out so banal a word as " entertaining " -- but it is . i shouldn't succumb to the temptation to describe it with ad-copy buzzwords like " spectacular ! " or " dazzling ! " or " epic ! " -- but it is . movies just don't get much more fundamentally satisfying on so many levels -- simple without being simplistic , grand in scope without losing track of its basic appeal . the story is , to put it bluntly , older than the roman empire : reluctant-but-impossibly-noble hero fights against great odds to bring low a regal-but-impossibly-dastardly villain . it has been done and done and done again , because when it's done well , few stories are as viscerally effective . and gladiator does it remarkably well . crowe plays maximus as straight as he can possibly be played , giving him an iconic grandeur ; it's the kind of role that makes actors into movie stars . the late oliver reed also scores in his final role as the casually cynical proximo . every one of them is playing a standard film type ; every one of them refuses to submit to the notion that a type can't be played with energy and commitment . as a basic film story , gladiator is lean and effective . and it's not too bad as a visual treat , either . copious use of digital effects is de rigeur for epic genre films circa 2000 , yet there is nothing remotely obligatory or pointlessly showy about gladiator's re-creation of ancient rome . it's stunning work that raises the ruins of the colosseum and captures both the magnificence and the casual brutality of the culture . it is becoming a hollywood clich to claim that " every dollar is up there on the screen , " but that's the way gladiator feels . the execution of its technical detail is so precise that it never feels like more or less than exactly what is necessary to complement the story . if there's a weak link to gladiator , it's the amount of time devoted to roman political intrigue . the imperial/republican squabbling and back-stabbing certainly recall classic sword-n-sandal films like spartacus , but gladiator starts to drag a bit whenever derek jacobi's plotting senator is on screen . perhaps it's just that gladiator is so invigorating as a stripped-down , nuts-and-bolts dramatic adventure that anything remotely resembling subtext just gets in the way . it's even more silly than amusing to contemplate parallels between gladiator's crowd-pleasing bloodsports and professional wrestling ( complete with maximus's combat moniker " the spaniard " ) . the usual caveat for summer event films has been something akin to " leave your brain at the door , " but that's not entirely appropriate or fair to apply to gladiator ; it's too smartly scripted in its old-fashioned way . the better suggestion is to leave your expectations of hipness , reflexivity and big-budget bombast at the door . gladiator is just entertaining . . . in all the wonderful ways that word can be a good thing . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	screenplay : william davies & william osborne . director : russell mulcahy . some movies require you to turn off your brain in order to watch . then there are movies that require you to accept that everyone * in * the movie has turned off * their * brains . the real mccoy is both . it's charmless , molasses-slow and so full of genuinely stupid people that the film commission of atlanta , where the real mccoy is set , might well consider some sort of ritual suicide for their complicity in this humiliation . contrivances and sloppy plotting fly off the screen so fast and furiously you have to duck to avoid being hit by them . there is no reason given why he should need or want to get involved in another crime , let alone why he would actually participate in the break-in . but the fun doesn't end there in the shambles of a script by william davies and william osborne . there is also the absence of a single , solitary interesting character . karen is earnest and single-minded in her motherly devotion , but lacking any kind of edge which would make her a convincing criminal , and basinger is not a thespian adept at fleshing out flimsy material . only kilmer's j . t . is remotely appealing , but his one potentially intriguing quality , his ineptitude , is never developed . in fact , kilmer disappears during the middle of the film , just when his admiration for karen could have made for an interesting sub-plot . i might have been more forgiving if the pacing had been more appropriate to a caper comedy , but the real mccoy goes nowhere fast . even the reasonably clever climactic break-in falls victim to this syndrome , including a scene of one of the thieves drilling open a vault which lasts ( i kid you not ) four minutes . there is no tension in the scene , just tedium . russell mulcahy ( highlander ) is a director with some style , and indeed the real mccoy looks reasonably good , but he completely stumbles in the editing room . there are so many big problems with the real mccoy that i'm tempted to overlook the little ones . like a fountain crushed when a van runs into it reappearing in one piece a few moments later . tempted . but i'm pretty good at resisting temptation . 
1	8 heads in a duffel bag definitely isn't for everyone . but if you have a twisted sense of humor and can see the comedy in films like weekend at bernie's , this movie is right up your alley . for my part , while i wasn't overly impressed by significant chunks of the movie , there were times when i was nearly doubled over with laughter . 8 heads in a duffel bag works very much like a series of skits cobbled together into a movie -- some of them work , some don't . not surprisingly , the most interesting performer in the film is lead actor joe pesci . in the midst of all the madcap zaniness , pesci plays his role mostly straight -- a weary hitman who just wants to complete one last job so he can retire . some of 8 heads' best moments come as a result of pesci's even-handed approach to the material . in fact , the movie's comic momentum has a tendency to flag whenever he's off-screen for more than a few minutes . tommy's trouble starts on the airplane , when he's forced to check his bag because it's too large to be carried on . a lot of the humor in 8 heads is expectedly lowbrow and grotesque , but there are some truly inspired moments . writer/first-time director tom schulman ( who , curiously enough , penned dead poets' society ) clearly knows how to use macabre circumstances to get a laugh , although by the last reel he has become repetitive . while this is ultimately pesci's film , there is a fairly sizable supporting cast . newcomer andy comeau does a nice job making charlie seem both likable and inept . george hamilton , dyan cannon , and kristy swanson all have their moments , but , in general , their work here is largely forgettable . while louiso's interaction with the heads is worth at least a chuckle , spade is constantly more annoying than funny . 8 heads in a duffel bag offers humor of the most irreverent , and sometimes downright disgusting , sort . as a result , it belongs in the same group as films like the monster and cemetery man , neither of which could be described as examples of sophisticated taste . and , while this particular entry is not really a " good " film in the traditional sense , it's hard to make it all the way through without laughing your head off at least once . 
1	producers : clint eastwood and arnold stiefel . director : clint eastwood . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , adult themes , violence ) running time : 151 minutes . here's a brain teaser for all you aspiring screenwriters out there : how do you adapt midnight in the garden of good and evil , a 350-page true-crime drama in which the crime doesn't occur until around page 170 ? before you answer , i should warn you that it's a bit of a trick question . part travelogue , part character study , part cultural anthropology lesson and part courtroom thriller , it combined disparate elements into the hypnotic tale of a unique place . so that screenwriting assignment might be better phrased as : how do you adapt midnight in the garden of good and evil , a 350-page true-crime drama which isn't really a true-crime drama ? john lee hancock had more or less the right idea when he chose to let his screenplay wander and sprawl . that covers the " plot " in a video-guide-summary sense , but it doesn't begin to do justice to what midnight is about . hancock's script wisely retains berendt's willingness to let a collection of colorful characters carry the story in tangential directions , painting a messy but vivid portrait of savannah as ( in kelso's words ) " gone with the wind on mescaline . " director clint eastwood chooses an ideal , languid pace for midnight which turns it into the perfect southern story : in no particular hurry to get anywhere , yet still intriguing in its richness of detail . in berendt's novel , that fragmented approach turns the city of savannah itself into the story's principal character . the williams trial functions primarily as a lightning rod for the attitudes and perceptions of the city's inhabitants , in whom eccentricity is ultimately a matter of degree . there are , however , some vacuums hollywood abhors , and midnight in the garden of good and evil tries to fill two of them with some pretty ineffective stuff . hancock works wonders with the novel's decade-long time frame , condensing events with impressive economy . he also strains to shove the story's square pegs into the gaping round hole of studio picture paradigms . hancock and eastwood may very well have made the best adaptation of midnight possible within a studio system . the acting is first-rate from top to bottom ( including a sly and charismatic debut by the lady chablis as him/herself ) , eastwood's technical team delivers typical excellence , and many of the book's best situations are re-created with sharp humor . there's just something vaguely unsatisfying about midnight , and not just in comparison to its source material . this story cries out for a less conventional treatment , though it's still fairly unconventional by most standards . the makers of midnight had their heart in the right place , but the result teases with the promise of an off-beat exploration it delivers only sporadically . perhaps the answer to that screenwriting assignment is even trickier than the question . you don't . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	this made-for-tv thriller provides plenty of mystery . it's a story that crosses religion and spiritualism with worldly cynicism and murder . arquette is excellent in an understated performance . robards brings a certain sense of tragic power to his role . while under the capable direction of mike hodges ( get carter ) , the film is superbly paced and plays up the ambiguity of the story in a satisfactory manner . the result is a stimulating film for the intellect and a challenge for establishing what one's reality is . 
0	matthew harrison's " kicked in the head " has its offbeat comical moments but in the end dies from self-indulgence and too much cuteness . kevin corrigan wrote a juicy part for himself , but his part never caught fire , in fact , he was the film's weakness . the supporting characters were at least funny when they did their shticks in this rambling , derivative nyc movie , that tried too hard to be offbeat and in the process forgot it would be nice to have a story that made some sense to go with the film . when she does that , it is good for a few laughs . the film gets trapped in too many scenes that don't work . another is the unlikely romance taking place between corrigan and fiorentino , which seemed out of context , and added nothing to the story , except it was more pleasant watching fiorentino perform than it was in watching corrigan . she was so much better than him , that it made me scratch my head and wonder what he was doing there . her character was all the more compelling than his , even though she had such a small part . nothing seemed to really work well here , yet all the supporting characters seemed to be pleasant and trying their best to make things work . but the film was too much of a childish fantasy on the part of corrigan , and the dialogue was too flip . it was one of those films that you might find enjoyable if you are in the right frame of mind for watching actors improvise their way out of a bad script , or if you are stoned like the connoisseur participants in " ape " film conversation were . 
0	screenplay : lawrence konner & mark rosenthal and jim fisher & jim stahl . director : penelope spheeris . joke #2 covered the expulsion of bodily gasses . the portion of the audience that was 8-12 years old , either chronologically or intellectually , howled with delight . i merely sat in astonished silence and prepared for a very long ninety minutes . the film version of the beverly hillbillies doesn't stray far from the premise of the 1962-1971 television series . the real star of the beverly hillbillies is casting director glenn daniels , who has put together about as perfect a physical match for the cast of the series as i could imagine . simply admiring cloris leachman's remarkable resemblance to the late irene ryan was enough to inspire me to grant hillbillies about ten minutes of good will . unfortunately , that turned out to be nine minutes too much . as eager as the performers seem to be to throw themselves into their roles , they're just not given anything remotely interesting to do . congratulate lawrence konner and mark rosenthal , who receive story and co-screenwriting credit , for pulling off a challenging task : coming up with a script even more pedestrian than their work in for love or money . they aim their jokes so far below the belt that they usually end up somewhere around the ankles . the addams family approach is clearly in evidence here , namely to come up with a gauze-thin story , then turn the characters loose to ham it up in comic strip fashion . the beverly hillbillies maintains a fairly consistent pattern of setup-setup-gag , setup-setup-gag , where you can see , hear and smell every one coming from several miles away . it's therefore not much of a surprise that the few really fresh and funny moments don't involve the hillbillies at all ; watch instead ( if watch you must ) for some sharp jabs at beverly hills high school students . these laughs are so rare , i won't spoil them by name . we get references to " jeopardy , " " people's court , " " barnaby jones , " and deliverance , just to name a few , and none of them are funny . spheeris seems to be making the mistaken assumption that referentiality is funny in its own right , regardless of context , forgetting that wayne's world worked because it was * about * the pop culture awareness of the twentysomethings . there's none of that goofy self-awareness in the beverly hillbillies , just a plodding , almost smug conviction that it will be a hit no matter what kind of garbage they throw at the audience . it would be nice to see them proved wrong . sadly , the beverly hillbillies seems destined to attract the same audience that made the addams family a hit , a combination of nostalgic parents and easily-amused kids . for nostalgia , watch the series in syndicated reruns for free ; for the kids , just give them a good book . they'll thank you for it later . 
0	the film's subject is the search for ideal love . it is the second feature of writer-director cameron crowe ( say anything . this fluff film fails to be absorbing because it is so sugary and forgettable , but with that being said , it still had a few tender moments that seemed worth while . there was nothing special about their up and down relationship , as it was very predictable . bridget fonda and matt dillon are a more interesting pairing . sheila kelley's stock character is sketchy and dull , of one who will do anything to get a man . the videographer is " batman " director tim burton . the grunge rock scene was fun to watch , the characters were more likable than not , there was a lot of tenderness shown for those who get hurt in relationships , and the film is emotionally as sweet as pie . the director is good at getting at light comedic moments , but has nothing much to say that is more serious . this is not an engaging film , and its whimsical story and clich ? characters did not hold my interest . the film was just too mild in attitude and tame in spirit . it is really a youth oriented film , with trite sayings which sound terribly out of place , such as when one of the characters says , " being alone , there is a certain dignity to it . " the film could be best enjoyed for its soundtrack , which includes the music of soundgarden , mudhoney , alice in chains and pearl jam in the background . 
0	the problem with the movie , by director alain berliner ( my life in pink ) , is that neither of moore's lives -- as marie in the bucolic south of france or as marty in a spacious manhattan apartment -- are the least bit real on the screen . with warm light constantly bathing moore's face , the movie appears more like the pages of a glamour magazine than a motion picture . dressed always to the nines and living in picture postcard homes , moore appears to be a model on one long fashion shoot . with plot holes aplenty , the biggest might be why marty doesn't just catch a plane to marie's place , or vice versa , so that she can finally put an end to the charade . the pretentious script is full of such mumbo-jumbo . and what moore wishes to do is to pose rather than act . the director appears to have relinquished control to moore since his awkward staging makes sense only if one assumes that the film's purpose is nothing other than to be a vanity piece for moore . the only reason to stay to the end and the only thing to keep the viewers awake is pure curiosity about how the story will be resolved . the conclusion is kind of plausible , somewhat predictable and reasonably satisfying , but it certainly doesn't atone for making the audience endure the rest of this silly , lackluster film . it is rated pg-13 for scenes of sexuality and would be acceptable for kids 12 and up . 
2	so what is beneath your feet ? when told to be more observant , most people cast their eyes skyward to see what might be above them that they are missing . and none of us have sensitive enough ears to heard the cacophony as the insects scurry about . viewers , other than certified entomologists , will find the world of the insects a totally unknown and magical one full of sound and fury . the film can even be seen as a romantic comedy , but this was the part my son liked least of all . for the comedic part , there are two beetles that begin a romantic entanglement of such intensity that they almost shake themselves off the tiny branch on which they are perched . like two lovers parked in a volkswagen , their choice of locale is just too confining . the brilliance of the documentary is not in the directing ( claude nuridsany and marie perennou ) nor the editing ( florence ricard and marie-josephe yoyotte ) although both are well done . what makes the film come alive is the technical mastery of the cinematography by thierry machado , claude nuridsany , marie perennou , and hugues ryffel . most sequences start with your typical view of a field and then , as in honey i shrunk the kids , the cameras move down to ground level . they use special lens to bring insects to life in incredible detail and with colors so bright they would put disney to shame . if you are not in awe of nature before you enter the theater , you will be when you exit . the photographers use some slow motion effects as when flowers are open . most of the scenes however are at normal speed . there are many great scenes in the picture . easily the most fascinating scene is that of the sacred beetle rolling its sheep dung pellet . how does a sacred beetle push a sheep dung pellet you ask ? when it gets stuck on a small twig , the poor beetle's brain is too small to figure out the simple solution -- just go to the other side and push it off . instead , our little guy uses sheer perseverance and hard work to dislodge it . imagine you are out on a lake and drops the size of cars start pounding you . pretty frightening . this is one of many times in microcosmos where the sound is even more impressive than the images . there are some problems with the film that would have been easy to fix . the show bogs down toward the end . the last quarter operates at a slower pace , and little of interest is shown . my son fell asleep during this part , and i don't blame him . she says a few words at the start and at the end , but nothing more . more narration , as the wonderful disney nature films from the 1950s showed , can add interest , humor , and enlightenment . i kept wondering what insect was i seeing and what was he doing . finally , the music by bruno coulais is quite effective but is used all too sparsely . microcosmos is a technical tour de force . i can't image missing something this unique . besides , where else can you see a show suitable for kids without a single product tie-in ? microcosmos runs just 1 : 20 , but would have been better with the last 15 minutes excised . the film has no humans and hence no human sex , nudity , or violence . yes , the insects do have sex , but your little ones will never figure out what is going on unless you care to tell them . my son jeffrey , age 7 1/2 , gives the show a " thumbs up but so slightly down that you couldn't tell . " i recommend the film to you and your whole family and give it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	cast : bridget fonda , russell crowe , jim broadbent , d . w . on one level , i appreciated rough magic , because it's an audacious , radical movie that is virtually impossible to classify . on another level , however , i have to admit that large portions of the film simply don't work . pushing boundaries is fine , but rough magic makes a few too many mistakes in its attempts to do so . as a result , the finished product seems more like a confused mismash of conflicting genres than the smooth , seamless parody/fantasy that director clare peploe was undoubtedly aiming for . rough magic , which takes place sometime in the early 1950s , opens as an old-fashioned noir thriller ( with a tinge of satire ) . my approval rating soars 17 points . " at one point , a character in this film remarks that " the line between illusion and miracle can grow very thin . " in rough magic , such lines have been completely obliterated . meanwhile , characters are spouting the hard-bitten dialogue of dime store novels . " i've been lookin' for you since the day i was born " and " life's simple till ya start thinking " are a couple of memorable examples . the real flaw in rough magic's approach isn't that it has so much fun playing around with our expectations , but that it tries to make a serious point about spirituality . unfortunately , whatever that point is , it never comes across clearly ( unless it's that you should always pay in full when you put gas in the car ) . so there's a heavy dose of the supernatural to be found in rough magic , but the mixture of potboiler and mystical elements can be jarring . part of the problem is undoubtedly bridget fonda , who frequently seems like a fish out of water . there's no debating that fonda is an immensely appealing actress , and , in the right role , she can be mesmerizing . unfortunately , the part of myra is not the right role . to begin with , fonda plays myra like a '90s woman , not a product of the '50s , and her whole rhythm is wrong for anything vaguely noirish ( even in such an openly weird satire ) . to be fair , fonda shines in rough magic's opening moments and during the last thirty minutes , but it's the hour in between that's the problem . it's also interesting to note that this is the third film with similar mystical/spiritual overtones in which fonda has appeared ( the other two being little buddha and touch ) . meanwhile , russell crowe ( virtuosity ) , gives a performance that's as passable as his american accent , but he's playing a two-dimensional hero , so depth doesn't really matter . moffett is adequate as the villain . perhaps the oddest character is dr . ansell , because we're never sure what to make of him . rough magic seems like a good idea that failed to make a seamless transition from the concept stage to the finished product . it's an amalgamation of ingredients that do and don't work , and the overall result left me feeling strangely ambivalent and a little dissatisfied . the film finishes strongly , but something of a bad taste lingers . so , although rough magic has its fair share of mysticism , it's not really all that enchanting . 
0	it's amazing that there's such a merchandising push surrounding this film . all of this may turn out to be a huge miscalculation on someone's part . based on the audience i saw this picture with , coneheads may be headed down the same road as last action hero ( which was a much better film ) . occasionally , the ten-minute sketch on saturday night live was good for a chuckle or two , but given an extra eighty-minutes , coneheads turns into a tedious bore . it's hard to believe how anything utilizing the services of the normally-engaging dan aykroyd could be so completely unfunny ( then again , he was in doctor detroit , but even that had a couple of amusing moments ) . i didn't laugh out loud once during this entire motion picture , which is a bad sign . i expected stupid humor , silly humor , or bizarre humor , but not no humor . the scenes in the previews are unfortunately representative of the entire movie , with the quirky speech patterns of beldar and prymaat being the big selling point . oddly enough , one of the snippets i saw the most frequently--that of aykroyd opening a six-pack and guzzling down the beer--is playing somewhere on the cutting room floor . it didn't make the final print . coneheads boasts some nice special effects when the setting shifts from earth to remulak . while there's nothing groundbreaking here , there's a nasty monster ( which looks like something out of return of the jedi ) that's done well enough to be believable , and the remulakian space fleet looks imposing . the movie starts out okay , but it's hard to keep a story this thin going for long , and by the half-hour point ( around the time that connie conehead is born ) , it becomes painfully obvious that the decision to create a full-length feature out of this subject material was a colossal mistake . lovers of the coneheads sketches will probably find this film entertaining--and perhaps even enjoyable . they're about the only ones that will be true of , though . for everyone else , coneheads will be much like an endurance contest--and the one who sticks it out to the end may not be the winner . 
1	german-born director michael haneke ( " funny games " / " 71 fragments of a chronology of chance " ) continues to make fascinating and diverse films about morality . code unknown is a film marked by its documentary style of filmmaking , as it attempts to look in a realistic way at the immigration of people from all over the world to paris . by using shots with long-takes , the director is able to capture in the facial expressions the various moods that strike his subjects . there's an inherent violence in western europe and there's a mixture of races that can easily be seen in the street scenes , the filmmaker tries to see how a modern european city in the midst of such population changes for its white country handles itself . in this episodic film there are several unconnected stories that seem to be leading nowhere , but are followed through at various points of the film ; the film is devoid of plot and relies on the viewer to make their own observations from what unfolds . this is a brilliantly done art film , offering a detached view of immigration according to the way an outsider sees it . it doesn't come to any grand conclusions , at least none that we haven't seen before , but its way of telling its story holds our interest and should be a rewarding film for those who have an interest in observing things in minute details . it was an excellent idea to have a series of long-takes so we can view the african family in action , the romanian woman dealing with her compatriots back in romania and then desperately sneaking back into paris to try and earn some money , and how the french family is also disengaged by the modern times . there's a sense of loss here , but there's also an excitement about what all this change could stir up . some might see it just as a film -- the way binoche views her actress role in the film within the film , who laughs at it when she sees herself on film . there's a special emotional quality about " code unknown " that allows paris to be seen in its lies . the film convincingly shows how hard it is for different cultures to communicate with others , and even though this has been said before the film's method of getting to that conclusion is the thing to look for here . 
1	screenplay : charles edward pogue , based on characters created by robert e . howard . director : john nicolella . mpaa rating : r ( violence , sexual situations , adult themes , profanity ) running time : 92 minutes . i was feeling a bit under-prepared as i walked into kull the conqueror . after all , i had never seen a minute of the syndicated series " hercules : the legendary journies , " and consequently i was completely unfamiliar with the work of kevin sorbo . what sort of action hero would this fellow be ? did he have the stuff to make it on the big screen ? standard sword-and-sorcery stuff , to be sure , but for a while kull provides enough satisfying spins to the material to keep you grinning . director john nicolella adds some amusing bits of business , like the triumphant and newly-crowned kull receiving discreet advice from his protocol minister to hold his scepter in the other hand . fierstein chews up every goofy line he's got , including the most obscure -- and crudest -- sexual double-entendre in charles edward pogue's script . sorbo leaps into the role with enthusiastic good humor , deciding he's going to find the pleasure in playing the hero . it would have been easy to play kull as camp , to keep winking at the audience to make sure we understood he's really in on the joke . rather than making fun of the genre , sorbo opts for finding the fun _in_ the genre . the result is the kind of energetic action which evokes richard lester's musketeer films , with sorbo providing considerably more than mere pecs appeal . kull the conqueror appears to have so much going for it early on that the final half hour comes as a crashing disappointment . all the energy leaks out of the film , the pacing abruptly drops to a crawl , and the appealing riff on creaky fantasy motifs gives way to creaky fantasy motifs . every line of dialogue becomes a piece of exposition , explaining everything twice so that even the most obtuse viewer might be able to keep up . chances are they may not want to , though , not with the narrative reduced to resolving a second-rate " dungeons and dragons " scenario . sorbo's efforts deserve better ; he gives kull the charismatic spark a good adventure needs . anyone know when the season premiere of " hercules " might be ? see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	director : robert deniro . after working with some of the finest directors of his time , deniro proves he's learned what goes into directing a good film with his first helming effort , a bronx tale . while his style frequently bears more than a passing resemblance to frequent collaborator martin scorsese , he's adept enough to get away with it , and adds enough of his own vision to make him credible . hang all of this on a strong story about a young man learning about life from two mentors and you have a solid , entertaining two hours at the movies . a bronx tale has been adapted from a one-man play by palminteri , and it has made an exceptional transition to the screen . it doesn't feel stagy like last year's adaptation of a few good men , and has an easy flow , even between the 1960 and 1968 segments . palminteri's script is full of colorful characters and evocative period atmosphere , and the first half in particular is also quite funny . however , i was far less engaged when the tone took a turn towards the overly serious and focused on racial tensions . the romance between calogero and jane felt forced , and ultimately i didn't think the climactic racial confrontation worked . the film had established such a unique and interesting central triangle of calogero , sonny and lorenzo that i was disappointed when that conflict took a back seat . the appeal of that conflict is part character , part performance . the two father figures are complicated characters portrayed by two fine actors . palminteri handles sonny just as deftly . calogero's moral uncertainty is real because the good guy and bad guy in a bronx tale frequently exchange hats . francis capra is very good as the mischievous young calogero , but i was less impressed by lillo brancato . he's a bit too blank , and adopts too many deniro mannerisms ( brancato won the part by doing an impression of deniro ) . jane is written basically as a " type , " and taral hicks looks painfully uncomfortable a great deal of the time . the combination of these two weaker performances only added to my antipathy toward the romantic subplot . robert deniro's direction , as i've noted , owes much to martin scorsese ; indeed , an early scene introducing the nicknamed regulars at sonny's bar is lifted straight out of goodfellas . deniro also displays scorsese's gift for pacing and crisp images . but this is more than a knock-off job . deniro's tone is lighter , more affirming and optimistic . in that respect , a bronx tale perhaps bears more resemblance to the current king of the hill than it does to goodfellas . it's a flawed film , but does considerably more right than it does wrong . a bronx tale is a coming-of-age fable in which robert deniro shows he has come of age as a filmmaker . 
1	sometimes , even a cat . but rarely is the love and affection of a boy won over by a killer whale . even though annie and glen seem like nice people , jesse isn't sure it's a good situation for him , especially since he regards the rules of the house as little more than a thinly-veiled attempt to curtail his freedom . starring richard harris and charlotte rampling , and clearly designed as a rip-off of jaws , this movie presented whales in the most negative light possible . now , approximately fifteen years later , we have been given this movie , one that presents the orca in a more reasonable--and believable--light . free willy is not a great film--it relies on entirely too many cliches and formulas for that to be true . in fact , there won't be many people going into the theater not knowing exactly how the movie is going to end ( take a look at a tv commercial , theatrical trailer , or even the newspaper print ad ) . despite that , free willy is a solid source of family entertainment , and a good reason to take the kids to the movies . this is one of those too-rare films that is capable of enthralling those under and over the age of twelve . there's a little bit in free willy for people of all age groups . formula motion pictures , if done well , can be entertaining . sure , you know what's going to happen , but with good acting , direction , and photography , not to mention a few believable characters and some intelligent dialogue , it can still be fun travelling that oft-trodden road to the expected resolution . rookie of the year and hocus pocus are examples of this summer's family fare that fall on their faces . free willy avoids the traps that ensnare these movies , keeping clear of the mind-numbing idiocy of rookie and the boredom of hocus pocus . instead , this film weaves a simple-yet-effective tale about a boy and his whale . it's almost like lassie or old yeller in water . his previous effort , which he directed , was a little-known and muddled fantasy about abused children . this time around , donner has involved himself in a family movie with more appeal and fewer problems . it should be mentioned that free willy isn't an error-free film . there are numerous scenes , especially those involving jesse in his petulant moods , that don't work . free willy isn't a movie that stands up well to careful inspection . most of the flaws aren't major , however , and are easy to overlook . the movie's biggest asset is its actors . this may be his first film , but you can't tell it from the polished performance he gives . lori petty proves that there are still a few worthwhile roles for women in american films . in her hands , rae is every bit as strong and capable as any of the men in this picture . still vivid in my mind is the image of michael madsen dancing to the tune of " stuck in the middle with you " as , with knife in hand , he approaches a tied-up cop . however , while madsen doesn't bury reservoir dogs' mr . blonde , at least he temporarily removes the picture of the psychotic killer from the minds of those in the audience who have seen quentin tarnatino's bloody thriller . on paper , this character may have been a cliche , but as portrayed by a veteran character actor , he comes across as a real person . perhaps the best reason to see free willy on the big screen is the photography . both underwater and above-the-surface scenes are filmed with style , and much of the impact will be lost in a television picture . the special effects are good--it's almost impossible to tell where the real whales end and the mechanical ones begin . don't be put off by the stupid title . free willy is actually an above-average movie that most people will find something to like about . it only gets preachy once or twice about the " save the whales " issue , and is never more obvious than a film like star trek iv : the voyage home . free willy has a good message , is enjoyably constructed , and includes several small moments of majesty . 
1	you're a twelve-year-old boy with a big problem . your mom's going to be home shortly , and you've got this enormous , stray dog in the bathroom that looks like it's been living in garbage and smells like dirty socks . your challenge is to coax it into the bathtub . although the dog weighs as much as you do , you engage in a wrestling match with it . you know that he loves basketball as much as you so you throw a basketball into the tub . the dog is a hyperactive wet mop that resists sitting still for more than a few seconds . solution ? all of this notwithstanding , air bud , disney's latest live action film is not a comedy , which is not to say that it isn't funny . as the bath sequence , set uproariously to " splish , splash , i was takin' a bath , " amply demonstrates , the picture can be quite humorous . positions the film firmly in the comedic camp . cast almost exclusively with relatively unknown actors , the film has a charm and a presence that is immediate . in a parallel story , a mean clown -- are there any others in the movies today ? if his entire part of the story had been either removed or at least significantly rewritten , the picture would have improved enormously . the other theme to the plot has to do with that standard formula of sports films , the team who wants to win the championship . the players on this team make the mighty ducks look like pros . never is their ascendancy to the state championship finals credible , but the movie frequently ignores the drive to win the big game anyway , which in itself is pleasantly unusual . equally surprising is that the credits tell us that " no special visual effects were used in the basketball sequences . " the most touching scenes are set outdoors . mike southon's cinematography , elizabeth wilcox's sets , and brahm wenger's dreamy music give a cold but hopeful beauty to these scenes . he has an infectiously happy smile and a huge tongue that seems forever like it wants to lick someone . the bond between josh and buddy is genuine without ever being staged for cheap sentimentality . " if you're just out there for yourself , you'll lose , " he cautions . and as shown in the trailers , this sequence is the show's funniest . it is rated pg for mayhem and would be fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , loved it . i recommend the show to you and your whole family and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	" i don't believe in fate , " says erin castleton ( hope davis ) , the wistful heroine looking for love in next stop wonderland , but _someone_ calling the shots on contemporary romantic comedy sure does . earlier this year , sliding doors offered yet another speculative stab at how and why we meet our soulmates . something in the zeitgeist has film-makers falling over themselves to convince us that mr . or ms . right is out there , somewhere , just waiting for us to go to the right party or step on the right elevator . next stop wonderland falls into that category , but only in the most nominal sense . the reason next stop wonderland never feels exactly like a fated romance is that it feels so grounded in the simple reality of its protagonist . it's as complete a female characterization as we've seen this year -- she's smart , clever , just vulnerable enough that you feel for her , just tough enough that you trust her . anderson directs with a 1990s woody allen vibe , complete with jump edits and hand-held camera work , yet the film never comes off as derivative of either the allen oeuvre or other sleepless-style comedies . a character who grabs your interest can do that for a story . gelfant is appealing in a low-key way , but he never gets the audience as emotionally invested in alan's hopes and dreams as davis does in erin's . the odd fringe benefit of this imbalance is that it takes the focus off the question that dogged other films employing this gimmick : why should we think these two people belong together ? the coda which has been added since the film screened at the sundance film festival makes that concern even more central . the ending is no longer happy just because these two people meet , but because it looks like they could be happy together , and davis's delightful performance invests us in her happiness . next stop wonderland is a sweet and entertaining fairy tale not just because she finds prince charming , but because the one fate we care about -- erin's fate -- is the only one the film is realy concerned with . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	" [ready to wear/pret-a-porter] is just a silly little movie , it's not a serious epic . so just enjoy , laugh with it , have a good time . it's no big deal . " - robert altman , director of ready to wear despite some delicious moments , this sluggish , overlong , halfhearted satire feels like a movie that wanted to go somewhere but never got there . with punches pulled and fangs capped , this look at high fashion is not at all what was expected from the director of the player , one of the most vicious and biting sendups of the last two decades . first of all , there are far too many characters . a cast list like the one above looks good on paper , but no actor gets more than a handful of scenes , which leads to a pervasive sense of apathy regarding almost everyone . neither of them seems any more substantial than the garments worn by the models in the climactic fashion show . at least three of the subplots could have been excised altogether . eliminating these might have streamlined ready to wear to make it more palatable . it certainly would have cut down the running time . it's not that altman can't work with a large cast--he did an admirable job in short cuts . the problem here is that his stories aren't particularly well-focused . the best scenes are often those where dialogue overlaps and the various subplots intersect . that's not to claim there's nothing effective in ready to wear . nevertheless , ready to wear doesn't have enough substance to justify its length , nor does it possess enough raw humor to leaven the flat spots . the jokes are inconsistently funny , with some being worth giggles , some eliciting hearty chuckles , and some prompting little more than shrugs . altman is a marvelously talented director . there's no denying that . films like m * a * s * h , nashville , the player , and short cuts have proven his skill several times over . and , while ready to wear is far from his best work , neither is it equivalent to much of the trash present on so many multiplex screens this season . the fashion industry can heave a sigh of relief that altman has spared it the full force of his guns . this film isn't likely to provoke much outrage from anyone except those expecting something as searing as the player . ready to wear keeps its jabs clothed , and by the time it strips away the layers of covering ( both literally and figuratively ) , it's a little too late . the above represents the opinions of the author , and not necessarily those of bellcore or any organization within bellcore . 
1	first , let me confess that i have never read much kafka other than collecting some of his classic quotes ( see appendix ) . but in a world of non-euclidean geometry , everything that seems right isn't . the first has never happened , the second has the side effect that you can always be brought up again for the same charge , and the last means you must spend all of your waking hours making sure that you case never advances . other than kafka's story and maclachlan's acting , the high point is the screen play by harold pinter . pinter has a style most typified by the movie betrayal , of a highly verbal almost shakespearean style that has the actors taking every word very seriously with constant ripostes between each other . the direction , settings , and especially the dramatic brass symphonic music are all good . i give the movie * * 1/2 , and recommend it . i have the true feeling of myself only when i am unbearably unhappy . you are free and that is why you are lost . nope . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 6 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	rarely has 1933 st . louis been so real . many period pieces give only token acknowledgment to the era in which they take place , but king of the hill has the great depression woven inextricably throughout . flawless detail is an undeniable asset . american heart , this boy's life , and searching for bobby fischer are a few of the better ones , but none is as impressive as king of the hill , perhaps because none has quite as simple a tale to tell . there is much in king of the hill to enthrall . the characters--even those we don't see much of--are rich , and the situations are , for the most part , entirely believable ( i had a little trouble with a scene involving a runaway car , but that was the only sequence that struck a false note ) . soderbergh has carefully developed this movie to draw out the drama without resorting to tired plot devices . the fact is , aaron's story , no matter how plain it might initially seem , is powerful in its simplicity . of course , to do justice to the plot , an effective young actor was needed to play aaron . jesse bradford's performance is natural and unforced and we never get the sense that he's doing more than reacting to circumstances . the resonance of scenes with these two is remarkable . while no one else has nearly as much screen time as bradford , the young actor has established actors supporting him . eichhorn takes pains to bring sympathetic realism to a small role . adrien brody gives an energetic performance as lester , aaron's best friend and mentor . the two are obviously intimate , yet they appear to have only contempt for one another . mcgovern , like karen allen as aaron's teacher , is underused . it's amazing how something so deceptively uncomplicated can be so effective . the narrative is relatively straightforward ; soderbergh doesn't employ any unusual chronologies . as in life , there are a few unanswered questions at the end of king of the hill , but most of these deal with peripheral issues and in no way detract from the satisfaction imparted by the film . done with less mastery , this could have been just another run-of-the-mill coming of age story . 
1	screenplay : gavin scott , adam rifkin and ted elliott & terry rossio . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( violence , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 104 minutes . some films are so bald-faced in their attempt to have it both ways that you just have to hand it to 'em for their chutzpah . on one level , for instance , it's obvious small soldiers wants to skewer gung-ho militarism . those same folks also know that the destruction to come will be considered bitchin' cool by a contingent in the audience which might be inclined to by small soldiers merchandise . in an era where action figure tie-ins are as much a part of popcorn movie-making as plastic fast food cups , small soldiers bypasses the inconvenient middle step of figuring out how to turn the characters into toys . it also bypasses the inconvenient middle step of explaining why we should side with the peace-loving gorgonites when the film makes the commando elite's assault ( complete with flaming tennis balls , nail guns and make-shift helicopters ) look like so much fun . it would be easier to dismiss small soldiers if the result weren't so entertaining , not to mention frequently amusing . for adults , it will be clever mostly in an in-jokey sort of way , from references to gremlins' gizmo to the use of he-man icons like ernest borgnine , george kennedy and clint walker as voices for the commando elite . the rest of the voice talent -- spinal tap alums christopher guest , michael mckean and harry shearer re-united as gorgonites ; sarah michelle gellar and christina ricci voicing mutant versions of a barbie-style doll -- isn't too shabby either . the humans may be a pretty boring lot ( excluding phil hartman , in his last film role as christy's consumer electronics-obsessed dad ) , but the combination of stan winston's animatronics and perfectly-integrated cgi versions make the toy story a fairly lively one . small soldiers is just weird and twisted enough to be worth a matinee . it's also a poorly-concealed version of the same action worship you find in a film like armageddon , though it's almost better when the worship is thoroughly unironic . the token attempts at satire notwithstanding , small soldiers plays most like a juiced-up feature-length commercial for _real_ commando elite action figures , available now at a store near you . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	date released : 11/23/94 running length : 1 : 49 rated : pg-13 ( mature themes , sexual innuendo , crossdressing ) starring : arnold schwarzenegger , danny devito , emma thompson , frank langella , pamela reed director : ivan reitman producer : ivan reitman screenplay : kevin wade and chris conrad cinematography : adam greenberg music : james newton howard released by universal pictures the new ivan reitman/arnold schwarzenegger comedy is a one-joke affair , and it takes surprisingly little time for the potential humor in the situation to wear thin . as a result , the viewer is left with about ninety minutes of suffering through schwarzenegger's attempts to act--certainly not his strong suit . put simply , junior demands more range from its leading man than he's capable of giving . the predictable result is a big-budget mess more likely to elicit groans than laughter . even suspending all semblance of disbelief doesn't make this film work . it is so poorly-constructed that a viewer has to go into a catatonic state to appreciate what's happening on screen . you don't expect high art from a reitman production , especially when arnold is the big draw , but this kind of unrepentant idiocy is unforgivable . twins and kindergarten cop weren't great movies , but they had a lot more going for them . these two don't really like each other , but each is willing to put up with a lot for the sake of their research--a new wonder drug designed to reduce , if not eliminate , miscarriages . i won't deny that the premise has comic potential , albeit of an unsophisticated sort . the problem is that the trite script fails to capitalize on opportunities , relying instead on worn-out cliches and jokes that are , for the most part , unfunny ( there are a few notable exceptions--i do admit to laughing a few times ) . junior contains a couple of pointless subplots that serve only to stretch the running length to an almost-unendurable one-hundred nine minutes . those that appreciate raw crossdressing humor would do better to view the adventures of priscilla , queen of the desert ( although i suppose there's some appeal in watching schwarzenegger , looking like a beached whale , in a frock ) . her comic aptitude is hardly new ( remember the tall guy ? ) , but it may come as something of a surprise for those who remember her from only howards end , the remains of the day , and much ado about nothing . it's astounding how inconsistent ivan reitman's work is--the same man responsible for such enjoyable films as dave and ghostbusters also has the dog of a movie beethoven on his resume . now , there's junior , which , in a way , has a subject matter appropriate to its dubious quality . 
1	my short review : sure . my expanded review : oliver stone is a great movie director . this is a fine movie from a technical and an acting viewpoint . the problem is that it is all balderdash . so i guess , i do recommend it , but why oh why can't he sprinkle in a little realism . i hate fantasies masquerading as reality . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	cast : billy crystal , gheorghe muresan , kathleen quinlan , zane carney , steven seagal , joss ackland director : michael lehmann producers : billy crystal , peter schindler screenplay : david seltzer cinematography : michael coulter music : marc shaiman u . s . distributor : columbia pictures i don't know what it says about a movie when the best sequence features steven seagal . that's right -- the same seagal whose harsh monotone , unchanging expression , and wooden performances have earned him a worldwide following . and , while seagal doesn't have a major role in my giant , his five minutes represent the film's undisputed highlight , because the humorless actor permits himself to be the object a particularly biting satire . in fact , not only does seagal allow his dubious thespian talents to be skewered , but he actively participates in the process . after seeing my giant , i'm willing to admit a certain degree of respect for the man . ( i will ignore the possibility that seagal didn't realize this to be a parody -- nobody could possibly be that obtuse , could they ? ) billy crystal is a naturally funny performer . put him in front the oscar crowd of 1 billion people , and he shines , with his ad-libs generating more laughs than the material flashing up on the teleprompter . in fact , it's only because of crystal's innate ability to make people smile that my giant is remotely watchable . the comic's self-deprecating humor , highlighted in a number of stinging one-liners , provides a partial antidote to the mawkish sentimentality that floods the film's second half . my giant will give the odd couple 2 ( another major april 10 release ) a run for its money in the " pointless mediocrity " category . speaking of lehmann , few directors in hollywood have had such an uneven career . on the positive side , he has helmed such top-notch comedies as heathers and the truth about cats and dogs . about the only noteworthy thing lehmann can claim for this film is that he had an opportunity to work with one of the tallest actors ever to grace the big screen . that actor is gheorghe muresan , a 7'7 " man with an eastern european accent so thick that he makes arnold schwarzenegger sound american-born . half the time , i wasn't sure whether he was speaking in romanian or english , and , when he delivers a speech from shakespeare's " henry v , " it took me a moment to realize who he was quoting . muresan , who is plagued by limited range , isn't a great performer , but he's at least competent enough to develop a sympathetic character . then again , when it comes to casting giants , lehmann probably didn't have much of a group to pick from . my giant is surprisingly lean in the laugh department , especially once the buddy story kicks into high gear . the scene in my giant guaranteed to generate the loudest guffaws happens early in the film , and features projectile vomiting . yeah , it's gross , but so was the overeating bit in monty python's the meaning of life , and that had me laughing so hard that tears were running down my cheeks . this isn't nearly as funny , but for those who aren't turned off this sort of stuff , there's a payoff . at its heart , my giant tries to be a feel-good tale , but it's too pat and cloying to be effective . >from the start , my giant feels plotted and manipulative , with a story that seems pieced together using scraps of other , better movies . there's also too much going on -- lehmann should have chosen to concentrate on one particular plot element ( the relationship between sam and max , for example ) rather than throwing them together with an ample dose of saccharine and setting the cinematic blender to " puree . " the result is predictably mixed up and dissatisfying . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
0	there is a scene , a few dead bodies into this week's slasher flick , that occurs when one of the minor characters has his hand nailed into the table with the killer's signature hook . the movie's remaining dialog has the same level of sophistication . it's now name-that-movie time . which movie featured a slow moving killer in a rain slicker , who gored his targets with a hook ? yes , it was i know what you did last summer . guess what ? he lives again in the sequel called i still know what you did last summer . and he'll probably maintain his immortality as long as teen audiences keep flocking back for more . the completely formulaic script by trey callaway is directed by the numbers by danny cannon . frightening scenes , filmed in murky shadows and accompanied by creepy , ominous music , have surprises that are a careful mixture of evil and innocence . sometimes there will be a bloody , dead body behind that door , but just as often it will prove empty . and the person you least suspect will be one of the guilty parties . the film should have been played for maximum parody but wasn't . the director has no compunction about chopping up human bodies with less compassion than your butcher . swimsuit ads are more revealing . even if the killer shows no mercy to his victims , the director does . i still know what you did last summer runs 1 : 36 . it is rated r for gore , sexuality and some dope smoking and would be acceptable for most teenagers -- for whom the movie was obviously written . 
2	quite a few recent north american imports of australian films have been mediocre , feel-good comedies like hotel de love , cosi , and love and other catastrophes . children of the revolution , the latest offering from down under , is superior to its tepid '97 predecessors in several ways . not only is it based on a fairly original premise , but the humor exhibits a distinct edge . the film starts out much like strictly ballroom , with a faux documentary format that lapses into a more traditional narrative version of storytelling . this style persists throughout the entire film , with talking head commentary and " archival footage " occasionally interrupting the flow . the most biting wit comes during these " interviews , " and first-time writer/director peter duncan's atypical approach allows the movie to end with a recursive twist . smartly written and adroitly developed , children of the revolution fires verbal and visual volleys at multiple bullseyes , from communism and stalin to the news media and mcdonalds . not all of the satirical jabs hit their mark , but there are so many of them that most of the misses go unnoticed . and several that do work are just short of brilliant . one of the more absurd scenes , which calls to mind mel brooks' " springtime for hitler " ( from the producers ) , has stalin singing and dancing to " i get a kick out of you " . there's also a sequence that details a " macabre and barbaric " means of breaking a hunger strike : blow the scent of sizzling bacon into the cell of the striking prisoner . one testament to the strength of duncan's film is the cast he was able to assemble . international star judy davis is in fine form as joan . if there's an obvious fault with children of the revolution , it's that there's very little subtlety . some of the satire is broader than seems necessary . nevertheless , there's enough solidly entertaining , occasionally thought-provoking material in the film to make it worth a trip to the theater . the barbs directed at the manner in which the media disseminates information , while not as vicious as those delivered by gus van sant's to die for , are among the movie's strengths , and the aspects of political parody are universally comprehensible . children of the revolution uses a fresh approach to take aim at a broad range of targets , and the result is both decisive and incisive . 
1	overnight , coyle went from a nobody to a folkhero by not doing the right thing , an action ( or lack thereof ) of which everyone seemed to approve . basically , the problem with this film is that it lacks the substance to keep it going for one-hundred minutes . in fact , it's debatable whether there's enough meat in the story for something half that length . instead of a wistful fantasy about what someone could do with this much money , we get a plodding drama that takes a few stabs at comedy , not many of which work ( although there is a nice bit where maury chaykin comments that the reason ben franklin's is the only smiling face on u . s . currency is because he never became president ) . distilled to its essence , the plot of money for nothing can be described in two or three lines , so it's immediately suspicious that the film makers managed to milk a full-length feature out of the joey coyle story . the result is probably no better--or worse--than most prospective viewers would expect . take away the profanity and the scene with joey and monica rolling around naked on a bedspread covered with $100 bills , and you get something that looks suspiciously like a made-for-tv movie . if there's a reason to see money for nothing , it's for the supercharged performance of john cusack , who takes his role to the hilt without ever going over-the-top . cusack starts out pretty low key , but as the burden of dealing with the money ( coupled with a lack of sleep ) gets to joey , the actor brings to the fore a manic quality that makes the eventual outcome of the coyle case believable . while this style has often been a plus ( in reservoir dogs , for example ) , it doesn't work in money for nothing , and madsen's laurenzi comes off as a non-entity . debi mazar , doing her best marisa tomei impression , isn't particularly memorable as monica ( a fictional character who functions as a compilation of several real-life people ) . there is a tragic , unfilmed epilogue to the coyle story that those outside of philadelphia may be unaware of . these sad , off-screen events make an unimpressive film seem even flatter . there's nothing horrible about money for nothing . it has a story to tell , and it accomplishes that aim , albeit in a workmanlike fashion . however , with everything being so straightforward and unremarkable , i can't say it's worth the time or money . and for those philadelphians going to catch a glimpse of their city on film , they should be warned that even though there are a few shots of familiar places , the bulk of the movie , while supposedly taking place on the streets of the city of brotherly love , was actually filmed in pittsburgh . 
1	starring : harrison ford , willem dafoe , james earl jones , anne archer , henry czerny , joaquim de almeida , harris yulin , donald moffat director : phillip noyce producers : mace neufeld and robert rehme screenplay : donald stewart , steven zallian , and john milius based on the novel by tom clancy cinematography : donald m . mcalpine music : james horner released by paramount pictures like patriot games and the hunt for red october before it , clear and present danger takes liberties with its source material . whether this is " good " or not will be left to clancy-o-philes to mull over . with all the hype attendant to it , however , this particular jack ryan adventure is somewhat disappointing . beneath its posturing as a " techno-thriller " , clear and present danger is really little more than a high-class blast-and-bang festival . it's sniper with more plot , a better cast , and an hour of extra running time . clear and present danger is all plot and no characters . the people running around on screen have about as much depth as the sheen of sweat on harrison ford's forehead . jack ryan is the most disappointing of all . he's disgustingly virtuous : a flawless fighter for good and justice , a superman without the cape . i spent half the movie wondering if this guy was ever going to show anything to mark him as vaguely human . the story is exceptionally , and often needlessly , convoluted . this comes as a result of attempting to retain some of the flavor of a long , complex novel . more attention is demanded of the audience than is probably necessary for this sort of movie . a little lapse of vigilance is all that's necessary to lose your way , yet the ultimate payoff doesn't seem worth it for those who manage to navigate the film's labyrinthine twists . ryan does so , only to end up in the middle of a high-level coverup . some of the technical elements of clear and present danger are fascinating ( principally because the movie actually gets a lot of this stuff right ) , and there are several well-executed action scenes ( even if harrison ford is getting a little old to be getting involved in so many fist fights ) . there's also a moment of cinematic flare where the proceedings of a normal funeral are intercut with those of a very untraditional - and bloody - one . as can be seen in clear and present danger , there's only so much a performer can do with a sketchily-written role . with parts of minimal importance and limited visibility , anne archer and james earl jones are vastly underused . there will be no " best acting " nominations from this film . clear and present danger boasts excellent sound - too bad the pedestrian visuals aren't of equal quality . in a time when good special effects are the standard , the viewer has a right to expect more from a picture of this magnitude than a cheesy-looking smart missile . at least there's more complexity evident here than in the pelican brief , the straightforward john grisham thriller that dealt less effectively with high-up washington corruption . nevertheless , whether because of or in spite of clear and present danger's involved plot , too many corners are cut . the uneven flow is as likely to lead to a snoozing viewer as to one on the edge of their seat . clear and present danger is enjoyable , but it's a shallow enjoyment that doesn't leave me hungering for paramount pictures' next clancy adaptation . 
1	this film , based on carl sagan's novel , is a mixture of sci-fi , romance , sentimentality , and drama , brought to screen by the director of forreset gump . it relies on its ideas and its mild convictions to sustain its powerful but soppy story , rather than its special effects , contrary to many modern films that have just become special effect vehicles . governments seem to trust this type and like to put them in charge of things . attraction between them is overshadowed by idealogical differences , and nothing can get in the way of ellie's belief in evolution , not even this hunk who is a ridiculously loopy caricature of a religious zealot , one of those religious johnny-come-lately types . here the story turns melodramatic and goes off on too many different tangents to adequately keep its focus on its primary aim-- that there is life in outer space . for these scenes , the film should have used the dictum from occam's razor : the simplest way to do something is the best way . as a sci-fi'er , with a good storyline that tends to get too schmaltzy , this film is up to par with those star wars films , but is outclassed by 2001 . sagan would have been proud of the accuracy and content of this work had he lived to see the film through to its conclusion , but i don't think he would have been to happy with the elementary-school theological debate between the space pioneer and the government officials . i think the best answer a scientist could give in this scenario , was not given by jodi . . . but , a steven hawkings might have said that it is through these scientific machines that we will come closest to reading the mind of god . it is a thing of great beauty . at least , this is what my science friends tell me is the more typical attitude toward god in their community . 
1	cast : michael keaton , andie macdowell , harris yulin , richard masur , john delancie , eugene levy director : harold ramis producers : trevor albert and harold ramis screenplay : mary hale & chris miller and lowell ganz & babaloo mandel cinematography : laszlo kovacs music : george fenton u . s . distributor : columbia pictures at one time or another , we've probably all wished that there was more than one of us . multiplicity taps into this universal fantasy , using it as the premise for the latest comedy from director harold ramis ( groundhog day ) . the involvement of both ramis and actress andie macdowell may recall the 1993 bill murray hit , but there really aren't many other intersections or similarities . multiplicity is more of a " gimmick " motion picture . while groundhog day was a lighthearted fairy tale , this excursion is more like the michael keaton show . it's a straight comedy , a great deal of which is of the physical variety . so , although multiplicity is funny , it's not as heartwarming or inventive as groundhog day . i give michael keaton the lion's share of the credit for multiplicity's success . the script may contain the puns , double entendres , slapstick , and other forms of humor , but keaton delivers them flawlessly , playing four variations of the same everyday sort of character . the visual effects that place two , three , or four keatons together are seamless , but it's not difficult to imagine the challenge that performing in some of these scenes can present for an actor . after all , it's not easy to play off of empty space . see eddie murphy in the recent updating of the nutty professor for another example of this sort of multi-character tour de force . i have never been one to sing andie macdowell's praises , and i'm not going to start now . she's had a few solid performances ( sex , lies , and videotape and unstrung heroes spring to mind ) , but , in general , i find her to be irritating . nothing in multiplicity encourages me to change this point-of-view . at best , it could be argued that she does an adequate job , but this is far from a clinic in the art of acting or capturing the audience's sympathy . i suppose it's necessary to briefly note that multiplicity is seriously flawed from a technological perspective , but this " unreality " doesn't detract from the film's pure entertainment value . in doug's words , " work is first , my family is a close second , and i'm a distant third . " in addition to the original , there's #2 , the workaholic ; #3 , the anal retentive ; and #4 , an imperfect copy of #2 who is affectionately referred to as " rain man . " and , even though doug is becoming very productive , things are getting progressively more confusing with each additional copy . multiplicity is an uncomplicated comedy with a lot of big laughs and a disappointingly weak framing story . do we ever really care about any of the characters or their situations ? with the exception of doug #1 , not really . as far as the promise of multiplicity is concerned , this script gives us a fertile field only half-tilled . there are moments of near-brilliance , but , for the most part , multiplicity falls into the " above average , but not great " category . the jokes , which are frequent and frequently successful , make this motion picture worth sitting through , even though , at nearly two hours , it runs on for far too long . for those who are just looking for a movie that scores high on the feel-good comedy scale , multiplicity is a can't- miss choice . in the end , however , i couldn't help wishing that ramis had tried for something a little more ambitious , rather than settling for a multiplicity of laughs without much genuine substance . 
0	alan ( trouble in mind , choose me , moderns ) rudolph's off-beat film has the look and feel of bad melodrama , using over-exaggerated action sequences to spin a convoluted yarn ( maybe a parody ) about twins , born to a ballerina who had an affair with a european aristocrat and is forced into giving them up for adoption when he wants no part of her . the title of the film , as defined , will refer to the equality of the light and dark sides during an equinox . she weaves this ambiguous tale or spoof , or whatever it is , together . as all the quirky characters will somehow fit into the story and by the end of the film , i guess , there is supposed to be some hidden message as henry stands alone , looking down at the tremendous depths of the grand canyon . there was one stupid line she said to him that made me laugh primarily because it was so stupid , " you're not going to catch nothing from me but your breath . " in fact , the only enjoyment i derived from all the banal dialogue and its embarrassing story ( if it wasn't a parody , then it's a horrible script , and if it is a parody , it doesn't work , the story is too ambiguous ) was the b- movie one-liners that kept coming throughout the film . since that's the only thing i liked about this film , i'll drop a few of them on you : freddy to another gangster , " never miss a good chance to shut up . " one gangster talking to another , " i was so popular in high school , everybody hated me . " i'll mention two quotes mr . petosa gives us from his vaudeville shtick he seemed to be doing for his characterization , " if money didn't grow on trees , how come banks have so many branches ? " and " chaste makes waste . " henry tritely says , " my whole life seems to be taking place without me in it . " beverly to henry , which is the most pertinent line in the film , banal as it is , " your whole life is searching for one thing , and all that other stuff just fades away . " i don't know what the story is supposed to mean ; maybe its just a search-for-identity kind of film ; maybe its an updated fairytale about " the prince and the pauper , " as one critic suggests . but i found it to be muddled , unfunny , and the acting is so lame , especially matthew modine's overacting , that it is almost unbearable to watch . but i got a kick out of those stupid one-liners from all the zanies trying so hard to be to be zany , and there was something intangible about the film that made you keep watching it , hoping there was something there that you missed seeing . so , at least , it's an original film ; a passable one , at that , with a lot of possibility to it ; and , it is done in the bizarre auteur style this filmmaker likes to operate in . 
0	the idea of parodying the western , while certainly not a new notion , hasn't been done in a while . lightning jack may be a perfect example of why . blazing saddles this definitely isn't . lightning jack is a well-meaning but completely lifeless comedy that is short on humor and long on boredom . there are numerous examples of movies without a plot or a point , but few are as dull and meandering as this one . the laughs--which are supposed to be the payoff--are occasionally amusing , but there's far too much dead air in between . besides that , anyone having seen the theatrical trailer has seen nearly every moment worth seeing . this is not , however , the stuff that great humor is made of , and that comes across all-too-clearly in lightning jack . while the actor is pleasant enough to watch , this film is in desperate need of something beyond " pleasant . " with his name in the slots of co-producer , writer , and star , mr . hogan can hardly be absolved from this travesty . if he was hoping to resuscitate an image battered by a pair of awful films ( dundee ii and almost an angel ) , lightning jack isn't likely to do it . it's a little embarrassing to watch cuba gooding jr . perform the pantomime-like antics of his mute character . it appears that paul hogan had one story to tell , and once crocodile dundee was made , the wellspring ran dry . trying to plumb it once too often has resulted in a series of poorly-written , mostly-unfunny motion pictures that the viewing public as a whole does not deserve to be subjected to . 
2	thirty minutes into waiting for guffman , my stomach hurt from laughing . like some of the most brilliant comedies of recent years -- clerks , living in oblivion , and flirting with disaster , to name a few -- waiting for guffman reminds us of the true meaning of the term " sidesplitting . " and , unlike in many of the movies on my " funniest films " list , there's nothing bizarre or twisted about this humor . the laughs dished out by waiting for guffman are universally accessible . those familiar with that film will find certain similarities to waiting for guffman , the most obvious of which is the faux documentary format . however , where spinal tap , like many parodies , relied upon acid humor and vicious barbs to generate laughter , waiting for guffman is a much gentler creation . this movie can be considered an affectionate satire , because , while it pokes fun at small-town america and high school stage productions , it also offers up a heartfelt homage to them . because the title sounds like waiting for godot , some viewers may be fooled into expecting highbrow entertainment from waiting for guffman . they are in for a huge surprise , for , although guest's film is exceptionally perceptive , there's nothing remotely artsy or pretentious about it . there are numerous reasons why waiting for guffman works . in the first place , it has intimate knowledge of the objects of its satire . like kenneth branagh's a midwinter's tale , this movie understands the backstage ins-and-outs of putting on an amateur production , and uses the funny side of that background in the script . and those who have lived in communities like blaine will immediately recognize the acuteness of guest's perception . secondly , waiting for guffman doesn't go for cheap laughs . while the performance of the play ( which takes up the final third of the film ) has a few minor mishaps , it is not populated with the kind of pratfalls that could lead to easy laughs . the play comes off much as it might in real life . and , perhaps unsurprisingly , there's the same kind of charm about " red , white , and blaine " that there is about any amateur production where the players substitute enthusiasm for talent . although i won't reveal the film's biggest laughs , i can mention that one has to do with a re-interpretation of a scene from a critically-acclaimed motion picture and another pokes fun at the kind of movie merchandising that surrounds big-budget goliaths like star wars . the auditions for the play are an especially good source of humor , since all of them are improvised and guest is seeing them for the first time as they're being presented to the camera . special note should be made of parker posey ( in the process of challenging lili taylor as the independent film queen ) , whose portrayal of libby mae couldn't be more on-target , and eugene levy , who plays the most fun- loving dentist since steve martin donned a leather jacket in little shop of horrors . there is such a thing as comic momentum , and guest has a good sense of what that means . comic momentum doesn't refer to nonstop jokes , but to an atmosphere that is always ripe for humor . by utilizing accomplished performers and crisp editing ( 60 hours of footage has been trimmed to 84 minutes ) , the director achieves this . i'm not certain how widely sony pictures classics intends to distribute the film , but this movie is worth seeking out . waiting for guffman is one of those too- rare motion pictures that actually lives up to the label of " a comedy " . 
2	untamed heart ( 1993 ) is a wonderful and truly magical film . it has two extremely strong and compelling performances by the leads , and is a film that makes you realize the joy of the human existence and especially the rapture of love . unless your taste run to believing the scrooge's of life , i find it hard to believe that you will not be as charmed by this show as was i . christian slater plays adam in the best piece of acting is his career . it is so imaginative and risk taking that i wish he had at least gotten an academy award nomination for it . it is a brilliant piece of acting . adam is someone who is either very shy , has a low iq , or both . he relates his story in such a slow and serious way that you begin to think , well maybe . their love making ranks among the slowest , sweetest , and most natural i have ever seen on the screen . the romance is more than just sex . it includes many magical gifts like making christmas trees that appear overnight in the caroline's bedroom . the direction by tony bill and the script by tom sierchio floats on a cloud . the movie works in all dimensions , but the scenes between adam and caroline are pure bliss . the cinematography by jost vacano and the sets by steven jordan do a wonderful job of providing reverence to lower class housing , jobs , and existence . other than watching the great and natural charisma between the two leads , the delight in the show is the little surprises in the plot , and there are many . the plot has several tragedies in it , and some may object that it is too manipulative , but , i thought every moment of it worked , right down to the ending . untamed heart breezes through at only 1 : 38 thanks to beautiful and seamless editing by mia goldman . the film is rated pg-13 for violence , preliminary sex , and brief nudity . since the little violence the film has is realistic and a bit frightening , i would say the film would be fine for any kid over say 10 . i loved this movie and think you will too so i give it a strong recommendation and award it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	screenplay : robert benton and richard russo . producers : arlene donovan and scott rudin . director : robert benton . mpaa rating : r ( brief nudity , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 91 minutes . i suspect that there was a great deal of good feeling on the set of twilight , the kind that comes when people believe they're about to make a point . after all , this would be a film where the title could be interpreted two ways . on the other hand , it would describe the cast of veteran actors and the charactes they play , all trying to show they are just as vital in the present as they were in the past . it would be a sly , subtle story brought to life by a group of sly , subtle performers . perhaps too sly and subtle for its own good . as a narrative , twilight offers virtually nothing you haven't seen in a dozen other mysteries set among southern california's privileged set : dirty cops , friends who turn out to be enemies , enemies who turn out to be friends , wads of cash exchanging hands , a little rough stuff , a little gratuitous nudity . sub-plots and supporting characters materialize with alarming frequency , far too many to be fleshed out adequately in the lean 91 minutes provided by robert benton and richard russo's script . twilight introduces enough ideas about decaying affluence and influence that it always seems to be moving forward . it just doesn't feel like it's headed anywhere in particular . the only reason twilight doesn't feel like a thoroughly generic time-waster -- and in fact offers a moderate level of satisfaction -- is the pleasure which comes from watching great actors share the screen . newman wears the layers of disappointment in harry's cop-turned-shamus-turned-drunk life like an old sweater , yet maintains a core of idealistic morality . kramer , nobody's fool ) in his typical restrained style . in fact , the actors are so good that they might trick you into thinking you're watching well-rounded characters . it's only when reese witherspoon , liev schreiber and giancarlo esposito stumble over their underdeveloped parts that it becomes apparent how sketchy those characters truly are . twilight generally feels rushed together as an opportunity for all these actors to appear in a movie together ; for all the talking going on , it's tough to get a handle on who these people really are . there's a fair amount of sharp , tart dialogue to go around . unfortunately , not enough of it is used to bring the characters into focus . harry laughs richly at the rumor when he learns of it , but the film may take the idea a bit more seriously . it's intriguing to watch both the actors and the characters trying to re-define themselves in the present and put their past behind them . and maybe that's even enough subtext to give twilight the edge it needs to make up for its lack of actual text . the story may be only half-finished , but the stars sure aren't . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	as proof that this conspiracy exists , consider as evidence the script by brian helgeland for the new mel gibson and julia roberts picture , conspiracy theory . the packed audience at the advanced screening of conspiracy theory became almost outraged at the picture . serious lines generated massive laughter because they were simultaneously ridiculous and stilted . at one point , a guy shouted an insult about the picture's quality and the audience broke into applause . the producers had a successful director , richard donner , two big stars , mel gibson and julia roberts , and a promising premise . donner , who directed gibson in all of the lethal weapon films , would use gibson's ability to create quirky characters to maximum advantage . the film opens promisingly and stays that way for the first ten minutes . ( in one of the film's more laughable bad snippets of dialog , one of the agents describes the organization saying , " if the intelligence community is a family , think of us as the uncle no one talks about . " ) and to make sure he is current on all the latest theories of others , he listens to what sounds like conspiracy talk radio . bloods oozes out of fletcher's mouth in a gory image that adds nothing other than shock value . in a film with more low points than death valley , two stand out as much worse than the others . the film's other " delight " is the explanation of the mystery surrounding fletcher that dr . jonas gives to alice . contrived would be the most charitable thing that can be said of this part of the plot . many pointless scenes are left in and others are allowed to go on way past their welcome . the result is a film as tedious as it is ridiculous . and this show is but one of many that prove the theory . conspiracy theory runs far too long at 2 : 15 . it is rated r for gore and profanity . the film would be fine for most teenagers . i do not recommend the movie and give it * 1/2 only for the two good leading performances in an awful movie . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	just in case you think the term " soccer mom " was nothing but a convenient demographic catch-phrase for the 1996 presidential election , one fine day presents michelle pfeiffer as an in-the-flesh soccer mom , and her life is every bit as complicated as we have been led to believe . it's one frantic day , all right , one that is equally frantic for " soccer dad " george clooney , and it begins to turn one fine day into a soci-political spin on planes , trains and automobiles . unfortunately , this is supposed to be a romantic comedy , and the romance is dropped into this unfocused piece of work like an afterthought . if the idea of one fine day is simply to show us how tough single parents have it , then i suppose it does its job . one fine day is basically a string of crises of varying magnitude , and while a few are amusing , the cumulative effect inspires more anxiety than chuckles . with inserts of clocks consistently reminding us of impending deadlines , one fine day delivers the nerve-wracking realism of impossible demands without leavening it with enough humor . it also delivers very little romance , and that's a shame , because pfeiffer and clooney click in the few moments they actually share the screen . there is a pat quality to the contemporary urban battle-of-the-sexes banter -- think when harry met sally at the day care center -- but neither star cranks up the sniping to an aggravating livel . by the time you get there , however , you may be nearly as exhausted as melanie and jack . director michael hoffman ( soapdish , restoration ) has made some interesting films with a lot going on in them , but one fine day is a case where he just wasn't able to tame the script ( by terrel seltzer and ellen simon ) . you may be startled when you realize that there is still a lot of one fine day left to go , time for it to deliver at last the relationship it teased you with in trailers , posters , and ninety minutes of running time . by that point it has become clear that , like its protagonists , one fine day is too busy for something as mundane as a relationship when there are jobs to do , kids to watch and , yes , soccer games to attend . 
0	screenplay/director : david mamet . the advertising campaign for oleanna features the line , " whatever side you take , you're wrong . " behind that statement is the conceit that this adaptation of david mamet's play , and by extension the original play itself , is a balanced presentation of a controversial issue . it is not . whatever oleanna might be--provocative , infuriating , incendiary--it is not balanced ; it is a technically proficient but inaccessible piece of reactionary agit-prop . there are two fine performances at the center of the film , but it was impossible for me to separate them from mamet's smug attempt to pass this off as thought-provoking theater . those familiar with david mamet's elliptical dialogue will instantly recognize oleanna as his work ; those unfamiliar with it will wonder what the heck he's trying to do . the staccato rhythms don't sound conversational , and in fact sometimes seem even more stagey than conventional stage dialogue . but though the first act of oleanna is occasionally very rough going , there is something compelling about that dialogue . i found myself paying closer attention , and noticing recurring motifs and shifting roles . william h . macy , who originated the role of the professor on broadway , has a gift for making mamet's words sound as close to natural as they can , and gives a haunting and haunted performance . debra eisenstadt is also impressive , alternately cowering and commanding , but the words sound more forced in her mouth . unfortunately , that is symptomatic of what is really wrong with her role . has the professor , by virtue of the power inherent in his position , placed carol in a compromising position , or is carol reacting too much in accord with a pre-determined agenda ? mamet pretends to make a case for both sides , but in reality he has done no such thing . at this point , while carol speaks wearing this insignia on her lapel , nothing that carol says can be taken seriously , even if we are inclined to thing that we may be seeing events through our own prejudiced lenses . issues of politics aside , oleanna just doesn't connect beyond a level of detached technical admiration . perhaps seeing the play live , where post-performance discussions were almost always part of the experience , provided more immediacy , more intensity . on the big screen , for all its controversy , oleanna is just too cold and intellectualized . i think that reaction might inspire mamet to take a good , long look at the messages he is sending . 
1	dirty ballet dancing , released under the pseudonym of center stage , tries to make the hard and competitive world of ballet dancing as much fun as rock and roll . not since jennifer grey and patrick swayze cut a rug in the catskills has a movie so wanted to demonstrate the sensuous joy of moving one's body to a beat . although center stage doesn't really find its groove until the last act , its dance numbers are well worth the price of admission . just try to forgive the amount of celluloid director nicholas hytner ( the object of my affection and the crucible ) wastes on the story's hackneyed romances . screenwriter carol heikkinen subscribes to the " one of " theory of script design , so the dozens of dancers include : one gay , one bulimic , one not skinny , one loud mouth , one black male and one hispanic female . the rest are so interchangeable that you'll wish that they had numbers on them to make it easier to tell them apart . and since the writer doesn't want to make a choice , she tries to shoehorn in way too many stories , all at the expense of the dance sequences , which is the only reason to see the movie in the first place . one of the film's most instructive and fascinating segments has the ballet dancers using everything from fire to water in order to get their toe shoes into just the right shape . the dancers endure incredible pain for the slim chance that they'll hit the big time , and the chorus -- in which you can tell your friends that you're the third one from the left -- is the most that even the better students can realistically hope for . speaking almost in whispers , the instructors give their generally mild critiques . light-years away from the drill instructor style that one would expect , they are so quiet that it's a miracle that the dancers can hear them . but the story's limitations become mere quibbles when the dancing starts . the best of the dancers , ethan stiefel as cooper nielsen , amazes us with his high flying , twirling bravado . when he engages another in a dazzling dancing duel , there's never any question as to who will emerge as the winner . although not his equal in technical skill , amanda schull as jody sawyer , plays the dancer with the most heart . when they perform the long ending sequence together , the movie sizzles , and the choreography wows us with its inviting originality . see it first on the big screen , and later , when it goes to video , hit the fast-forward button every time the dancing stops . it is rated pg-13 for language and some sensuality and would be fine for kids around 11 or 12 and up . 
0	a terrific cast does not necessarily make for a good pic . the film becomes ridiculous by the time of that unbelievable romance on the run and by its finale it becomes a hopeless mess . though , it's entertaining as it takes us into the modern commercial art world and pretentiously shows what it takes to be a modern artist , let's us eyeball jodie foster in the nude , and has dennis hopper do his usual eccentric character number--this time as a hit man who wants to be loved and play the sax like charlie parker . he will then give anne a choice : i finish you now , or i let you live and you belong to me . it ends with a bunch of silly action scenes involving a helicopter chase and an oil refinery explosion . since none of it made too much sense , the fun to be found in this largely improvised flick is to see if you can get some laughs from how absurd it is . since i only got a mild dosage of laughter out of it , i was only mildly pleased with the flick . originally made for european release under the title catchfire , backtrack wasn't given a general distribution until 1991 . but in 1991 it was given back some cut film footage and released on cable . i would have hated to see the film when it made less sense than it did now . 
1	the frighteners isn't a bad film , but it is a disappointment . it's driven by some pretty nifty special effects , but the characters are fairly lifeless , and the plot , when it makes sense , is silly and needlessly convoluted . as horror-comedies go , this one doesn't offer much that's original or daring . it's not hard to pinpoint what's wrong with the frighteners . the storyline is extremely confused , and there's no big payoff . the proceedings meander along , throwing jokes , dripping ectoplasm , unnecessary characters , and pointless action sequences at the audience , until they rather suddenly come to an end . there's no big buildup to a final confrontation , nor is there any real sense of anticipation regarding the climax . the script is unpolished , and often feels more like a draft than a finished product . the frighteners opens with a solid premise . the frighteners includes some enjoyable , and potentially interesting , elements , none of which are given enough exposure to do them justice . bannister's interaction with his ghostly con partners could have made for an enjoyable film on its own ; here , it's part of the setup . again , the possibility is only toyed with , not fully realized . at times , it's frustrating to watch the frighteners , because the seeds of a good story are there , struggling to get out . that said , the movie held my attention for its one-hundred ten minute running time . it's lighthearted and paced like a runaway train , and some of the gore-and-humor mix works . the special effects , which were done exclusively by a new zealand company , are as impressive as anything produced by ilm . the frighteners isn't as eye popping as twister or independence day , but it functions as a nice piece of visual candy . michael j . fox does a better-than-adequate job in the lead role , and he and trini alvarado display a nice rapport , even if their romantic relationship remains underdeveloped . the frighteners is about as mixed a bag as you can get . the muddled story is a serious drawback , as are the host of unnecessary characters and subplots . the former , although supposedly on hand for comic relief , was a little too creepy to be funny , and the latter was critical only to an unnecessary plot twist . essentially , neither was needed , and the frighteners would have been better without them . if there's one obvious aspect of this movie that recalls heavenly creatures , it's that jackson once again plumbs the depths of his imagination . 
0	dr . t & the women kicks off with one of those trademarked robert altman sequences of choreographed cacophany . it's a brilliantly economical way to set up a potentially fascinating protagonist . dr . t loves women so much ( in a purely spiritual , madonna-half of the whole madonna/whore thing sort of way ) that he just can't say no to any of them . what a great character to study : a man who idealizes women in a cultural setting -- upper-class southerners -- where plenty of the women are just fine with being idealized . t & the women from being a provocative movie experience : richard gere , and just about everything else . this act one diagnosis underlines every action dr . t makes for the viewer's benefit : ah , note is instinctively sexist-gallant attempts to do everything for bree ! you'd think it might underline things a bit for dr . t himself , especially since he gets the dialogue explaining his wife's condition . gere has never been one of our more subtle actors , but here he simply refuses to give dr . t's pathological sanctification of women any edge . altman and rapp let him off the hook by implicitly suggesting he's just a man tossed about by the forces of estrogen rathern than an example of a particularly unhealthy attitude . and it doesn't help that almost every one of the film's dozen or so female characters is written as a cartoon -- dern as the champagne-swilling , unhappily married belle ; janine turner as a pushy hypochondriac ; tara reid as dr . t's conspiracy buff younger daughter -- making it even easier to see the befuddled dr . t as the victim rather than part of the problem . instead , it's a cheap opportunity to make him almost absurdly sensitive and understanding , when understanding is so clearly what he lacks . t & the women flirts with the kind of symbolism and narrative complexity that can make it seem deep -- be sure to bring an abacus to count the number of connections between water and female sexuality -- but it's actually terribly shallow where it counts . without an actor willing to make dr . t a sexist anachronism in need of some self-awareness , the film is reduced to a two-hour exhibition of limp farce . how depressing to see that wonderfully evocative waiting room turned into the place where the big payoff is someone getting tripped and banging her head on a coffee table . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	nevertheless , the love the sisters have for each other shines through this adversity . georgia ask sadie , " what are you drinking ? " , and sadie replies , " you know me . whatever is cheap or free . " sadie is an awful singer with a scratchy and irritating voice . during her first long song , people started piling out of my audience and heading to the lobby for refills . there is one long songfest that she has towards the end that made me want to jump up and scream " cut ! " this part reminded me of part of one of my favorite movies , the big chill . we're all scared and there are more of us all the time . " she keeps getting frailer and frailer throughout the movie . toward the end , i was ready to cry she was so sad . and yet , this movie is not a downer . at its heart and soul it is about intense sisterly love . jennifer jason leigh's performance is riveting . my only criticism of her acting is that when sadie is sober her mannerism do not change . mare winningham has a hard role to shine in , but she is up to it . the chemistry between the two of them is genuine and believable . sadie's heavy black eye make-up gives her both a wasted and a trendy look . the script ( barbara turner ) is written smart and insightful . i thought i had the ending figured out , but i didn't . finally , much credit has to go to the highly controlled directing by ulu grosbard . it is correctly rated r for heavy alcohol and drug abuse , bad language , some nudity , and a little sex . it is a very serious show that would be appropriate only for mature teenagers . this movie is filled with riveting performances , and i recommend it to you . it gets * * * from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	this comedy/romance story is more about the sense of communication than it is about the mystery story or about the five senses the structure of its story is built around . it is done in a delicately stylized form , filmed mostly in dark , somber shades , as the story revolves around the characters in an office/residential building in toronto . the film moves along at a brisk pace , which kept me interested in their lives , but what the story failed to do was tell me all it can about the characters . nevertheless , i was satisfied with the film and the very sensitive nature it tapped into , as it touched a nerve in each one's character and left me caring about them , despite thinking that maybe the characters were a bit shallow . this engrossing film touches on the fears people have who are losing their senses and how they must rely on the sense that is their strongest to pull them through their difficulties . rona struggles to understand herself through the sense of taste that is both her strong and weak point . they are seen slyly talking to each other about what to avoid in a relationship , since they have both experienced many failed ones they have much in common . this sequence didn't have the flow to it the others did , and even though it was touching to see , it seemed too calculated to have much of an affect . jeremy podeswa ( eclipse ) , the writer-director , has come up with a captivating film despite the shallowness of the characters and the story being a landmine full of clich ? s . there are things shown in the relationships uncovered that bring out so many emotional qualities , as this independent film takes risks on a story line that borders on being perceived as too arty , but somehow it works because it has something to say about relationships that are so painful to bear . that i didn't get to know as much about the characters as i would have liked , gets overridden by how well the story was presented . i don't think the film would have worked if it weren't for the nuanced ways of the film and if it tried to tidy up everyone's life by the finale . the point being made , is that it is the small little things one does to stimulate one's senses that counts the most , whether it is when one reaches out for another , or when just trying to understand someone else and giving them succor , that it is by using one's senses to connect with someone else that makes life worth living . these revelations were too banal to make this more than an intriguing film . but , the story did catch and hold my interest . 
1	a melodramatic noir film , with location shots in the caribbean . why cormack doesn't leave , is what makes him a typical noir icon . 
1	you see , the main character , played by the ubiquitous eric stoltz , is a movie critic , and , to put it mildly , he's an ineffectual moron . in addition to not being an admirable human being , he's not a very good critic -- he misses deadlines , doesn't seem to know much about film , and never sees the inside of a theater . so , if you're predisposed not to like critics , this is exactly the kind of scum you imagine we're all like . actually , it's not just stoltz's richter boudreau who's a sleaze . everyone else in the film fits into that category , too , and they all wear sunglasses , smoke cigarettes , and swill alcohol just to prove it ( there's more booze here than in any film this side of leaving las vegas ) . the movie doesn't seem to know what to do with all these characters , so it throws them into a banal noir " thriller " that moves with the speed of molasses and covers ground so well-trodden that the footpath has widened into a highway . everything in keys to tulsa seems disconnected -- the people , the images , and even the various subplots . of course , the script somehow manages to tie everything together into one neat package at the end . after all , there's nothing like a tidy , if implausible and anticlimactic , conclusion . richter , a reviewer for the tulsa journal , is clearly a ladies' man . she wants something from richter , but it's not clear exactly what that " something " is . ronnie wants something , too , but his motives are less murky . throw in a dead body , a lot of bare flesh , and a few incriminating snapshots , and , voila ! , you have a by-the-numbers noir feature . for a film with so many twists and turns , it's depressing how unsurprising keys to tulsa actually is . the movie has the feel of something that's desperate to get somewhere , but keeps spinning its wheels . i think we're supposed to identify with the down-on-his-luck richter , but it's hard to develop any sympathy for such an obvious loser whose woes are all his own doing . as for richter's critical acumen-- he's the kind of guy who will sit through fifteen minutes of a movie then write a review as if he'd seen the whole thing . while the relationship here is a little more traditionally dysfunctional than that in crash , it's no less unpleasant . at least unger is less bland in this movie ; she plays her role with a sultry abandon that , while totally over-the-top , has a prurient appeal . while she has a couple of sweetly effective scenes with stoltz ( such as the breakfast sequence where his eyes are " mesmerized " by the flashes of skin her loose-fitting shirt affords him ) , her big , emotional moments are painful to watch . and michael rooker never attempts to bring any subtlety to his brash , constantly-drunk character . one thing keys to tulsa succeeds at ( besides developing a suitably dark atmosphere , which is necessary for any film of this genre , no matter how uninspired ) is reminding us how truly effective films like blood simple and bound are . it has always been true that it takes inept motion pictures to highlight the strengths of their better antecedents , and this is a case in point . ultimately , keys to tulsa doesn't open any new doors . 
1	screenplay : john eskow and ted elliott & terry rossio . producers : david foster and doug claybourne . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( violence , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 137 minutes . most significantly , in both cases the character himself is larger than life -- all you need to do is put him on screen and you're halfway to satisfying the audience . it's a frustrating waste of effort to watch a character like that dwarfed by a typically over-blown contemporary action film structure . what a shame no one had enough confidence in the actor , or the character . the two make a decent enough pair -- alejandro the impulsive pupil and de la vega his graying yoda -- but the mask of zorro only truly comes to life when banderas is front and center , clad in black . in the few set pieces where banderas gets to whirl into action , whether crossing swords as zorro or burning up the dance floor with elena while posing as a nobleman , he's an electrifying presence , a genuine movie star giving the audience a grand show . in this bloated production , however , it's hard to keep focused on the dash and flash of zorro . the length is padded by the obligatory back story introducing us to the " origin " of the new zorro , as well as a ridiculous sword fight between zorro and elena which offers stilted banter and a pg-13-preserving disrobing thanks to strategically placed hair . mostly , the story by ted elliott and terry rossio ( the summer's busiest writing team , with credits on godzilla and small soldiers as well ) has the generic feel of an action film just one re-write removed from being a bond vehicle . the setting has a back-lot blandness to it without the back-lot charm of swashbuckling melodrama . you may be pleading for something as restrained as the finale of a typical bond adventure by the time the mask of zorro reaches its climactic showdown at a gold mine . the whole thing culminates , naturally , in an endless 50-powder-kegs-and-a-cloud of dust explosion where the zeal of the pyrotechnicians is topped only by the sound effects guys' goofy decision to make it sound like they just blew up a pack of dyspeptic mountain lions . so much for an adventure which primes you to cheer for a great hero . banderas' appeal alone may be just enough to win over some viewers ; the waste of that appeal , and of the man in black's commanding image , made me long for some heroic figure to come along and make a few strategic slashes in the editing room . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	so , is your adrenaline a little low ? since steven seagal is on the marquee , you figure , hey , this has got to be another steven seagal action film , right ? steven seagal has basically a cameo role and disappears early on , never to be seen again . moreover , you even guessed the wrong genre ; this is a thriller . although there is action , most of the movie's time and tension is spent in mental anguish with lots of sweaty brows as the time for disaster approaches . right then and there , the whole audience knows the ending of the show , but it doesn't matter because editor turned director stuart baird is so good at keeping the tension mounting . platt does all nerds proud and the classic little straw he sucks on turns out to be one of the heroes of the show . i will not cover what happens next , but suffice it to say that your heart may try to pound out of your chest as mine did . i even found my body shaking some on the defusing the bomb scenes . beside what i believe is one of the best performances ever by russell , many others are great too . halle barry plays a brave and resourceful airline stewardess . the only weak character in the show is an ambitious senator ( j . this character happens to be on board the plane , but i wish he hadn't been . you could be the one to negotiate with the terrorists . " walsh's performance is extremely weak , and the movie would have been more focused without his character . the show works because of the tension , but there is one technical aspect deserving of special mention , the cinematography by alex thomson . the first time we witness the terrorists in action , they are shown in black and white slow motion sequences that slowly gain color before dissolving into the next black and white sequence . see the show at your local monster screen house because the images of the stealth fighter coming right at you in the hazy yellow and red glow of early morning are quite impressive as is the sound . the whole linkup sequence is another marvel to behold . finally , although the show does not try to overwhelm its viewers with technology , i was fascinated by the way the soldiers look through cameras with small flexible tubing to see what is going in the main cabin . the script by jim and john thomas sticks to the suspense to keep the show going . other writers would have gone for a lot more laughs . they do use humor , but sparingly . upon boarding the 747 , one of the soldiers says , " i hope they have a good movie on this flight . " executive decision , by the way , is one film i guarantee you , you will never see on an airplane . the movie ends with frank sinatra singing , " it's nice to go traveling , but oh so much nicer to come home . " by that time , my adrenaline was pumping so fast , i could have flown home without use of a plane . since this is about a presidential decision , whom do you think they cast in the role of the president ? finally , every show with bad guys has to have them be of some nationality or religious conviction . although most american shows with bad guys , have just plain old americans as the evil characters , i have seen the villains be colombians , italians , fundamentalist christains , and just about everyone imaginable . in this movie they are islamic . i wonder if in the future , i will be pamphleted by colombians , italians , fundamentalist christains , etc . ? i should point out that the number two in command complains at one point to david suchet about the destruction of washington that , " this has nothing to do with islam . " executive decision runs 2 : 15 , but it feels like a much shorter show . i would advise going to the bathroom before entering the theater . you do not want to miss a second of the suspense . the film is rated r . this is a soft r that comes from a little bad language and several people killed , but without a lot of blood or gore , more like an old fashion western . there is no sex or nudity . the movie would be fine for any teenager . i loved this show , and i think you will too so i recommend it highly and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	as the grown ralphie , jean shepherd speaks through heavy narration about the christmas ralphie was 9-years-old . the story is nominally about ralphie's quest to get an air rifle for christmas and not just any air rifle -- a genuine red ryder . " every family has a kid who won't eat , " ralphie tells the audience . to get nourishment in him , his mothers tricks him with games like " show me how the piggies eat . " sticking his head in his plate , ralphie's little brother grunts away as he spreads the potatoes all over his face in a cliche of a disastrously messy kid . most of the show's episodes are heavily outlandish . every adult in the picture , even the department store santa claus pooh-poohs ralphie's gun wish with , " you'll shoot your eye out . " stay tuned . all of the story's characters are too quirky . their dialog is sometimes funny but the script's lack of subtlety and effective wit makes for an increasingly tiring experience . roald dahl could have turned this material into another of his sardonic masterpieces , but the movie's writing committee of leigh brown , bob clark and jean shepherd simply do not have anything approaching dahl's talents . in its simplicity this predictable picture , for all its faults , does possess an undeniable charm underneath . if they could have just gotten dahl to write the script . . . it is rated pg for a few mildly profane words . the film is fine for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the movie was " great , " and he went on to comment that he liked the boy because he was funny . 
2	" i believe that for a long time now chinese films have been too abstract , conceptual , gimmicky . i'm certain that most audiences will like this film . we haven't gone overboard on the tragic elements , but rather have focused on the minute , amusing details in the life of a nobody . there are tears and laughter , one following the other in a gentle rhythm like the breath of a bellows . " - zhang yimou , director of to live to live , zhang yimou's sixth feature , explores territory that is rapidly becoming familiar to those who view the works of china's so-called " fifth generation " film makers . however , this marvelously textured movie , which is by turns funny and touching , takes a different approach from pictures like my blue kite and farewell my concubine . instead of viewing the cultural changes on an epic scale , to live gives a far more intimate , and affecting , perspective . as one of the film's explanatory capsules states , few families in china were not affected by the cultural revolution . although to live has been banned in its country of origin because of a supposed negative portrayal of certain pro-maoist historical events , zhang's presentation of three turbulent decades of life in china seems reasonably balanced . other films ( most notably farewell my concubine ) have more openly attacked the communist revolution and its aftermath . the characters are powerfully developed and realized , representing some of the most " real " men and women to populate any of 1994's films . >from the 1940s to the early 1970s , we follow fugui's family through good times and bad . zhang's skill is such that we become less a detached observer and more a passive participant . few films approach the level of honesty reached by to live . this is a story whose underlying central theme is expressed in the title : through all the struggles , hardships , and moments of rare magic and joy , the characters continue their lives . with to live added to an impressive list of credits that already includes ju dou and raise the red lantern , zhang has cemented his reputation as one of today's premier directors . it is an accolade not lightly accorded , but the film maker has earned it through his telling of rare stories brimming with humanity and unforced drama . the above represents the opinions of the author , and not necessarily those of bellcore or any organization within bellcore . 
1	larry cohen's auspicious debut film is a scathing black comedy set in beverly hills . there seemed to be a break down in society and cohen isn't interested in why but in what is happening to the country . but he lets the suspense go to pieces and eases the heavy rape scene with social comedy and gentrified manners . it is sordidly funny in spots and at other times it just seems shrill and pretentious . there were too many flat spots between the mesmerizing opening scene around the swimming pool and the bleak finale in a sand dune , to make this quirky effort work entirely . it seemed to be toying with the audience for its acceptance or disapproval , more than anything else . bone is a film desperately trying to get under one's skin , but doesn't have enough staying power to complete the job , except it leaves one with a lingering feeling of being unduly provoked and still laughing about it . it fits nicely into cohen's concept of film as schlock art . cohen will split the screentime with bill and bernadette at this point . bone had its moments in the sun , but couldn't get out of its shadow in time to say more than boo ! what remains chewy about it , is the bizarre psychology evoked . it is a film that will be pleasing to some much more than it will be to others ; it could be admired for its originality and for its quirkiness , but there are others who might see it strictly as an exploitive film . the film had moments when it was both terribly good and terribly raunchy . 
2	" the way i see it , you have people who own lawns and people who mow them , " trent says , explaining his role at the bottom of the social hierarchy . full of self-deprecating humor , trent faces his reduced opportunities in life with spunk but not much hope . as the quirky film starts , it looks like another plastic parody , but director john duigan has something else entirely in mind . the imaginative director of sirens stages scenes in ways shocking , surprising , and generally quite satisfying . with rampant sexuality , violent undertones , and fascinating characters , the film has something for everyone . the central character in this modern fable is a precocious , 10-year-old girl , devon stockard , played with wonderful complexity by newcomer mischa barton . she delivers a riveting performance that constantly surprises . with her wide-eyes and broad smile , she is devilishly delightful and ever inquisitive . although devon seems as though she might turn into a lolita , she never does . devon's wildness comes out in other vivid ways . kathleen quinlan , whose specialty is loyal , suffering housewives , plays an erotically charged one this time . the director's talents are best seen in those scenes in which he transforms weed pulling and salad preparation into incredibly erotic undertakings . lawn dogs , like sirens , basically defies description . suffice it to say that it has just about everything in it , including a director who knows precisely how to combine the ingredients in amazing and compelling ways . the performance by young mischa barton alone is worth the price of admission . it is not rated but would be an r for nudity , sexual situations and violence and would be fine for older teenagers . 
1	perhaps with eleven more orangutans , dunston checks in might have come up to the quality level of twelve monkeys . as it is , however , this movie is like a bad episode of fawlty towers -- minus basil fawlty . yet without the antics of john cleese to lend a manic edge to the proceedings , the humor level is way down . there isn't much of a story . sometimes , these generate laughs ( although not full-bellied ones ) ; more often , they're greeted stone-faced by the audience . i suspect younger viewers will find dunston checks in a great deal funnier than older ones , but that's not surprising when you consider that the script seems to have been written with seven-year olds in mind . but that's not all he has to worry about . the best parts of this film are , by far , the ones that feature sam , who easily outacts the human cast . the orangutan is fun to watch in the way most screen animals are ( remember clyde in clint eastwood's every which way but loose and any which way you can ? ) , but such limited amusement value doesn't justify a feature film . if nothing else , however , director ken kwapis shows that he knows how to focus on the orangutan ( although it is pretty obvious when animatronics are used ) . paul reubens ( once known as pee wee herman ) and rupert everett have a scene or two worth a chuckle , but that's hardly a reasonable payoff for going so far over-the-top . dunston checks in is marginal entertainment ( at best ) for the under-12 crowd . more mature viewers will find the lame plot and dumb jokes increasingly irritating as the film plods onward . considering this movie alongside four rooms , it's looking like a bad time for the motion picture hotel business . 
2	you have already formed the wrong conclusions about this show . it is not one of those gritty , depressing , isn't life awful movies like ironweed or kids . nor is it a message movie filled with hopes of moral redemption like when a man loves a woman , but it certainly has a message . it also has two of the best acting performances of the year . he is not kidding , and he is very happy about it . do you understand ? " i am a person who is totally at ease with this . " words do not adequately describe the happiness they both have during this brief time they have together . think of this as a movie of what someone might like to do if they knew they were going to die in less than a month . this is not to say that ben and sera have it easy . mike figgis does the direction , script , and ( dreamy jazz ) music . the characters he creates are originals and ones that are totally believable . he uses this as a narrative glue to hold the picture together , and it works well . i had no idea what a great actress shue is . i have never been very fond of cage's acting . too often i have found it over the top and unrealistic . but here , i could not imagine any actor could have done a better job with this role . i hope they both get awards . they have many great scenes together , but i guess my favorite is the one of them by the pool in the motel in the desert . the cinematography by declan quinn is wonderful . the colors have a rich and yet surreal feel . shue's eye's and smile is what you see no matter how short her miniskirt . it would have been easy to have her role being secondary , but her acting is right on par with cage's . this is a scary show at times . you care deeply about these poor souls so when ben gets a bad case of the shakes , it makes you want to cry . it is correctly rated r for extreme alcohol abuse plus sex , nudity , and violence . i would not let teenagers go to this movie unless their parents go with them and discuss it afterwards . it is too easy for young minds to misconstrue the isn't drinking fun subtext . this is an anti-alcoholism movie , but it takes maturity to realize it properly . i strongly recommend this marvelous picture and amazing acting , and i give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	the easiest put-down of the ever popular jackie chan movies is that if you've seen one , you've seen 'em all . although the statement has an undeniable truth , jackie has so much charisma that seeing him again can be a delightful little diversion . afterall , the james bond films have a remarkable sameness , but a legacy that appears endless . jackie's skills are many and his energy is boundless . his shtick can best be described as an action ballet played to the physical limits of endurance and always firmly rooted in comedy . this film , unlike his more recent ones , stays firmly in the campy vein . all of the actors have the word " farce " written at the top of their contracts , especially the bad guys , of whom there are legions for jackie to confront . jackie has played in over fifty films and directed thirteen with this one being the last he directed . cloning ? it starts with a scene that seem lifted out of indiana jones and the last crusade , which was released the year before , but director jackie stages it for much broader humor that steven spielberg did . the carefully choreographed , non-stop action sequences sometimes go awry as shown in the crazy outtakes at the end . but in the final cut of the movie proper , they would get near perfect scores from any olympic judge . jackie's attractions are many -- his teddy bear demeanor , his intense likability , his seeming vulnerability and most of all , his mastery of the delayed reaction . he does all of his own stunts , and it is a miracle that he is still alive . what operation condor lacks is a compelling story and a credible script . " stop hitting me , okay ? " ) after innumerable fighting sequences we come to the film's big conclusion set in a wind tunnel . this admittedly clever idea , goes on so long it far overstays its welcome . this fun little show , which has no pretenses , will amuse most people , but jackie's true fans may view it as a kind of masterpiece of the genre . for those of who are not fans , its laughs will be forgotten minutes after we exit the theater . it is in jarringly dubbed english . the film is rated pg-13 for the constant , but campy martial arts action . the show would be fine for kids around eight and up . i give it thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	" it's like 'gone with the wind' on mescaline . " most critics have their least favorite genres . one of mine is the movie whose appeal derives solely from a string of extremely quirky characters . conversely , one of my favorites is the courtroom drama . the former genre is extremely prevalent whereas the latter has fallen somewhat out of favor . the few courtroom dramas that are released are all too often mediocre . since the film contains both a murder trial and a host of eccentric characters , i went in excited but with reservations . although the movie , directed by clint eastwood , is not as good as i'd hoped , it is a delicious satire on the south . as a native southerner , i found the accents true , the culture believable , and the jokes dead-on . the beauty of john lee hancock's script is the fine line he walks between realism and parody . although eastwood comments in the press notes on how impressed he was with the way hancock boiled a complex book down to its essence , more pruning still would have improved the final product . paul hipp , for example , plays an inconsequential character named joe odom , whose whole part could and should have been expunged . as john kelso , john cusack gives another great performance . unlike his wonderful acting in grosse pointe blank , where he provided the humor , in midnight in the garden of good and evil he spends his time in reaction shots . as one of the almost completely comical characters in the show , lady chablis plays herself . she gets some hilarious one-liners , and she has a gift for physical comedy that keeps the show from ever dragging when she is on the screen . ( " yes , i am nouveau riche , but it's the riche that counts . " ) he oozes charm and confidence from every pore . eastwood stages the scenes with such naturalness that you feel right at home . ah , the living is easy . there is a reason for this and for why he always carries a bottle of poison with him , but i will let you find out . and yes , there's a good reason for that one too . movie trials need good defense attorneys . and more . " you believe what you choose , and i'll believe what i know . " a film that revels in ambiguity , it is a delightful piece of entertainment even if not the major film that i expected . midnight in the garden of good and evil runs a little too long at 2 : 15 . it is rated r for some profanity , some violence , and mature themes . it would be fine for most teenagers . 
2	it's interesting to note that two of the best films i've seen theatrically in 1996 weren't made this year . in fact , they weren't even made this decade . the first , martin scorsese's classic , taxi driver , is celebrating its twentieth anniversary . championed by scorsese , this re- release was handled by miramax films , which has brought back to the screen one of the greatest suspense thrillers ever to be filmed . purple noon is an autopsy of a near-perfect crime , and a compelling look at the man who commits it . the fee for the job is $5000 , but , once tom becomes involved in phillippe's life , its seductive leisure entices him away from his original goal -- or so it seems . this is all really setup , because the meat of the story reveals that tom is , in fact , an amoral killer , willing to do just about anything to get what he wants . tom is without remorse ; the only emotion he displays is satisfaction at the success of his latest caper . the plot , which is a wonderfully twisty affair filled with ingenious turns , is a delight to watch as it unfolds . nothing about this movie is pedantic or predictable ; it's two hours of pure suspense that puts many of the recent so-called " thrillers " to shame . it's a masterful effort by director clement , and , considering the nature of the main character , it's not hard to understand why scorsese would lend his name to the re-release ( much as he did for belle du jour ) . one of purple noon's most obvious assets is delon's acting . tom is fascinating because delon makes him so . this isn't a run-of-the-mill villain ; he's a complex character with a well thought-out reason for everything he does . he may be a psychopath , but there's a quality about him that engrosses and seduces us even as his actions cause repulsion . and , because the movie centers on tom , there are times when we find ourselves hoping that his schemes will work , if only for the pleasure of seeing what he will do next . in addition to delon's fine performance , purple noon is characterized by expert camerawork and crisp direction . clement understands how to sustain tension without drawing it out too far . the film is exactly the right length , as are each of the individual scenes . cinematographer henri decae has composed each of his shots carefully , including a masterful series of closeups of delon's eyes that reveal the sinister intelligence behind the apparently-guileless exterior . with twisters and independence days packing theaters and grabbing headlines , it's easy to bemoan the current state of cinema . so far , 1996 has not been a particularly good year for movies . there's nothing so engrossing as watching a truly intelligent thriller , and that makes this film a rare treat . 
1	screenplay : ron peer and joel cohen & alec sokolow . director : roland joffe . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , sexual situations , adult themes , violence ) running time : 97 minutes . goodbye lover is the kind of nihilistic entertainment that gives you a few giggles while watching it , then leaves you feeling dirty for not loathing the whole enterprise . the reason nothing is what it appears to be is that goodbye lover is a film about twisty-turny plotting . . . and , essentially , that's _all_ it's about . it's the kind of stuff that usually makes a film interesting to watch thanks to its unpredictability , but goodbye lover becomes strangely predictable in its unpredictability . it's so instantly obvious that it's a film about hidden agendas that it becomes a matter of waiting until the next character's obviously hidden agenda is revealed . there's not much fun in the zigs and zags the story takes because every 20 minutes or so you know it's going to be time for the next zig or zag , and the next permutation in a series of unholy alliances . there's still something over-the-top goofy about goodbye lover which makes it possible to slip into its sociopathic world . the performance is only so-so , but the character is such a wild blend of madonna and whore that she's enjoyable to watch . ellen degeneres gets most of the prime punch lines as the embittered det . in fact , goodbye lover is so gleeful in its complete absence of humanity that it may take you a while after it's over before you feel the need to shower its decadence right off of yourself . it's too self-aware of its lack of real characters to inspire too much head-wagging , but it's still one of those films that finds it cool to set up the only person with an ounce of optimism as an object of ridicule . there's just enough residual cheesiness to keep the film in the realm of the surreal , with just enough bleak attitude to blunt its surreal appeal . it's not a thriller so much as it is an ultra-black comedy , where part of the joke is on you for leaving your moral outrage at the door . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	after seeing the new live action pinocchio movie , the adventures of pinocchio to which i gave * * * , we decided to watch the disney original 1940 classic animated movie pinocchio since it is the reference standard . directors hamilton luske and ben sharpsteen's 1940 pinocchio is wonderful - full of beauty and tragedy . the moral lessons come fast and furious . she promises pinocchio that he can be a real boy and not just a live puppet if he is good . the carrot . the stick . unlike the remake , the original is much darker and more frightening . stromboli is extremely sinister . if the thought of some diabolical man bend on locking them up doesn't scare little kids , not much will . the show has more insidious characters like honest john . overall , the movie is a panoply of the inherent horrors of childhood and much more so than the remake , the 1940 original does not pull any punches in illustrating the consequences of immorality . the piece de resistance is pleasure island . all and all , this is a troubling but extremely well crafted film . reminds me of how movies , even today , stereotype people with southern accents like mine as being poor and stupid . there is so much more right with the movie that it is hard to know what all to include . just the infectiously happy and uplifting voice of jiminy cricket is certainly worth a mention . most scenes have little detailing and yet , the colors of the warm browns remind us of the wooded nature of the protagonist and the warmth suggest that redemption is his for the taking . the songs are all memorable and great . my favorites are " give a little whistle , " " when you wish upon a star , " and " an actor's life for me . " i have only one major criticism of the film . the whole monstro sequence runs way too long , especially the search for the whale . if they wanted to make the film longer , they could have added more in the front part . finally , i must be honest . as much as i like the character of pinocchio in this movie , i liked the character in the remake better . his movements are more interesting and the way he deals with some of the situations more imaginative . on whole , however , the remake is not near as good as the original . the main problem with the remake is that they downplay the morality issue which is the heart of the story . pinocchio runs 1 : 28 . it is rated g , but little kids may be frightened by the caging , the whale , and many of the darker images . i always include jeffrey's ( age 7 ) mini-review in my review . i forget this on the remake , the adventures of pinocchio . for reasons , which he was not able to articulate , he liked it better than the original pinocchio to which he gave only one thumbs up . personally , i give my strongest recommendation to pinocchio and rate it a full * * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the twist this time is that rather than playing her usual brainiac part , she is a ditzy blonde but one with a hidden turbo charger in her brain . this ditzy but driven personality allows the screenwriters , karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith ( both from 10 things i hate about you ) , great latitude in developing the comedy . ( maybe the movie brings out your inner ditz , as i spilled iced tea all over myself while writing this review . ) " what , it's like hard ? " the movie is filled with these visuals that are so funny that you'll be laughing even if the sound system fails . filled with lots of big laughs , the movie is willing to take the risk to pause at unlikely times to have some serious moments . most movies would have her shrieking away in horror , but in legally blonde , rather than being embarrassed , elle toughs it out and acts natural . as natural as possible , that is , when her considerable physical assets are on display for all to see . after legally blonde , it would be easy to envision reese witherspoon producing , directing , writing , editing and starring in her own movies . she has such unbounded energy and optimism that it would appear she could do anything that she sets out to accomplish . i can't wait to see what's in store for her next . it is rated pg-13 for language and sexual references and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 12 , who laughed a lot during the movie , gave it * * * 1/2 . he thought it was really funny , imaginative and interesting . he especially liked all of the courtroom scenes . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	hollywood addicts are different but no less pathetic than addicts elsewhere . ben stiller , still playing in theaters as the comedic lead in there's something about mary , demonstrates considerable versatility as jerry stahl , addict extraordinaire and television writing wunderkind . since the gorgeous elizabeth hurley plays sandra , many male viewers may wish they were so tempted . not content with mere alluding to his habit , the film is filled with explicit scenes of him shooting , smoking and popping drugs . most , but not all , producers manage to be conveniently oblivious to his difficulties . " hollywood is so self-obsessed that nobody notices what anyone else is doing , " jerry points out . the other actors tend to be ex-druggies themselves , so they are sympathetic to his plight . permanent midnight , while having a few dark comedic undertones , is as effectively realistic a statement against drug usage as you're likely to find . it also amply demonstrates the downside of fame in the fast lane . it is rated r for pervasive hard drug usage , profanity , sex and nudity and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
1	director : michael apted . screenplay : william nicholson and mark handley . the pre-release buzz over jodie foster's performance in nell tells you two things about this year's academy awards race . first , it's another abysmal year for female leading roles when people can't think of any worthy nominees and start to hype a performance two months before anyone has seen it . second , it's another year when overcoming a disability is virtually the express lane to a nomination . what it doesn't tell you is how good foster actually is in nell , and that is simply good , and far from great . nell as a whole is even less successful , a well-acted but unremarkable film which makes a couple of profound missteps . director michael apted has demonstrated an affinity for films set in the south ( coal miner's daughter ) and films about culture clashes ( thunderheart ) , so he would seem like a good fit for nell . indeed , he is mostly on target . he and cinematographer dante spinotti ( who collaborated on the visually imaginative blink earlier this year ) create some marvelous images of the beautiful locations , in clear deep blues , and there are a few extremely effective scenes of nell reacting to a strange new world . however , he makes at least one truly awful choice . the problem with nell is deeper than that one error , however . thematically , it's simply the elephant man in a log cabin : " civilized people " discover " freak " and learn that " freak " is more human than any of the " civilized people . " unfortunately , nell is not nearly as subtle or engrossing as the elephant man . the script , by william ( shadowlands ) nicholson and mark handley from handley's own play , would have been better as a mystery than as the morality play it becomes , but apted's one false move robs it of that mystery . by the time we get to the climactic scene in which nell delivers the kind of courtroom speech which makes courtroom scenes so generally annoying in contemporary films , she has become too much the noble savage and not nearly human enough . jodie foster is a wonderful actress , but there's really only so much she can do with this part . though it seems tailor-made for a heap of awards , nell surprisingly fails to generate much emotional resonance . physically , foster does som superb acting ; she lets this character inhabit her entire body . it just often seems as though she is concentrating so hard on her part that she's not making connections with the other actors . liam neeson and natasha richardson are both solid as the feuding doctors , but they come to parts which have the kind of pre-fabricated back stories that come out in tearful speeches , a frequent flaw of playwrights turned screenwriters . their relationship feels contrived , which is a true shame considering neeson and richardson's real-life romance . that development is like a lot of nell : awkward , even as it looks great . 
1	in reality that was a time of great poverty and unrest and this film serves as a humanistic response to that age of intolerance and greed , though the film does not make a direct political statement . this is his first film in ten years and it is sponsored by the chinese government , and one of its chief faults is that the film used bad film stock , as it seemed out of focus and grainy . on the positive side , it is a colorful and heart-tugging though highly manipulative melodrama , filled with obvious reactions against injustices , but whose voice is always on the side of the artist and those who are disenfranchised in society . the film will go on to dispel china's ancient notions that a girl is not as valuable as a boy . the film becomes predictable , as it shows how they are both shaped by their experiences of the hard-times they live in and by the traditions . as a result , when the film's last act rolls around , what happens all feels contrived and overacted , and i felt manipulated , especially when i saw that the sweet little girl is even willing to die for her grandpa . though the viewer is being shamelessly manipulated , the story feels so strong and right , that it seems easy to get caught up in the emotions of the moment and the beautifully arranged images that lit the screen up with magical faces and gorgeous sets and costumes . the film got ever so mushy , but it was so cleverly executed and i was gladly taken in by zhou ren-ying and zhu xu pulling on my heart strings . 
1	how's this for damnation via faint praise : i'm pretty impressed that 28 days didn't turn out to be an utterly unwatchable disaster . there aren't many film premises that would set off my early crap alert system like a feel-good comedy-drama about folks in a rehab clinic ( maybe robin williams in a feel-good comedy-drama about a robot who wants to be human ) . you've got your pathos , you've got your cheap emotion , you've got your showy drunken scenes for actors and you've got your central character arc so rigidly defined you could set your watch by when denial turns into a great big group hug . i've got to hand it to director betty thomas for lending 28 days a little dark edge , and to screenwriter susannah grant for delivering a few more solid laughs than i was expecting . unfortunately , they're still not able to overcome the basic flaws in their story . emphasis on the " long " and " slow . " there are more than a few good gags to be found in the interaction between the support group members , but there's nothing driving the narrative forward once gwen decides to go straight . it's not that the process of recovery ends with one decision , of course . in 28 days , however , the process of drama does end with that one descision , leaving the film to grab at relationships and confrontations that never go anywhere . those moments might have seemed more vital if not for the uninspired performance by sandra bullock . it feels like i've been a bullock booster long after most others have leapt from her feisty-cute bandwagon , but there's little going on behind her attitude in 28 days . at least her post-sobriety scenes are a reprieve from her cartoon rendition of staggering drunkenness . in this role , bullock looks like she's completely out of her depth . betty thomas does do a nice job with altered perspectives , shooting hazy memories in grainy video and capturing some funny confessional scenes with an i'm-the-center-of-the-world iris effect . there is the small problem that those confessionals don't really belong in 28 days , but there's no solid sense of what belongs throughout the story . the fragmentation of family , the different paths taken by two adult children of an alcoholic and the challenges of forgiveness could have made for a much more compelling sub-text than a half-hearted romantic triangle with eddie at the other vertex . 28 days offers some effective comedy , and it does manage to avoid pathos and cheap emotion . in fact , with its fragmented narrative and limp lead performance , it comes close to avoiding emotion altogether . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	a " hollow-wood " production that couldn't be more hollow or hollywood in style , and to its only benefit , is visually pleasing . it presents a classic mysterious aura about it through scenes of thick fog , horrid decapitations , and framed shots as if it was a period art picture coming off its frame and onto the screen . but the story , that's a different story ; it is abominable . it is so ridiculous and incredulous that the filmmaker completely ruins washington irving's great short story . it is not the imaginative parable it was meant to be , but a story about a serial killer . so , you can forget the book , obviously tim burton did , that is if he ever read it . the film is not helped by a cast ( i might add a rather talented cast of british and americans ) that are sleepwalking through their parts . the two stars , who have inane and unappealing and underwritten roles , and seem to be acting as if they have no idea of what they are saying or doing in this film , but seem to enjoy playing it up for the camera , while showing no chemistry for any romance to be deemed possible between them ; which , without the two stars being credible performers , the film has little chance of succeeding . this film has box office appeal as a date movie for the high school set , comforting each other as they snack on popcorn ( which the theater owners will be largely appreciative of ) , and the teens , in all probability , will be reacting with bemused glee or mock horror to all the packets of ketchup unleashed during the headless horseman's romp through the sleepy hollow of 1799 . who else this movie should appeal to , is not for me to judge . but , when the audience leaves the theater , no harm is done , this is a totally forgettable film . there is no need to worry about nightmares over the gratuitous violence seen . this one is so obviously just a movie , that it can't even begin to match the book for its eloquence and the great manner of the book's very germane writing style , that is both lucid and thought provoking . if anything good can be said about this film , it would be that it brings back to the public's attention the forgotten writer washington irwing , someone who knew how to craft a ghost story back in the turn-of-the-19th-century and is still very readable . it's just too bad that a good movie couldn't result from such an accessible work . it's best to forget about this movie as in any way connected with the novel , the only thing that seems to jive is the time period , the location , and the character called ichabod crane ( depp ) . from here on , the movie is off on its own tangent , playing havoc with the story . in the movie the horseman is real , and the story becomes a vulgar mystery with some inept attempt to bring in an air of magical mystery to it , and it almost completely ignores the romantic rivalry between the two suitors , which was at the heart of irving's story . how a film could go so far afield , is not unusual for hollywood , but in this case the film has gone too far afield from the story to even claim it is based on the book . i would suggest reading the short story ( about 40-pages ) before or after seeing the film , and then see what you think of the film . i read the book after the film and am grateful that it called washington irving to my attention , again . otherwise , i can't say enough bad things about the film's crass aim to take away the imagination of the story and replace it with not one shred of what irving was after in his ghost story about romantic jealousy but here becoming a story about jejune classical horror images and a tacked on banal murder story . i'll admit , the movie looked good , better than most horror movies i might have raved about , but even with all the gory murders taking place and an excuse for a who-done-it movie evolving , a tedium set-in and the film seemed to lack suspense , breath and dimension ; and , like a beautiful person without much else , what else can you say that is complimentary after you say , you look good ! 
0	no , it's not the latest hot band . chris koch's snow day is a juvenile comedy that has a few nice moments , but it puts you to sleep more often than it tickles your funny bone . the poster boy for this lame farce would be the principal of the kids' school . he's an embarrassment to card-carrying adults . the sweetest guy in the movie and the biggest surprise is chevy chase as tom branston , the number three television weatherman in a three-station market . in a semi-serious role , rather than his usual cheesy part , chase generates a modest amount of genuine sympathy for his character . although his acting isn't much , at least it isn't his usual abysmal performance . the kids believe than the chains on his plow come from the braces of crushed children . the movie doesn't have many jokes that you haven't heard before . the script also features a smelly bunch of flatulent fat boy jokes -- boy , that's original . that's it . the picture has only one good laugh , and now you know it , leaving no reason to waste your money on the rest . it is rated pg for brief , mild peril and language and would be acceptable for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave it * * 1/2 , liking randy the best . 
0	the title is taken from the writings of ralph waldo emerson describing the life of a traveler as 'anywhere but here . ' there isn't one thing about this mother-daughter relationship melodrama that felt honest . if the film looks familiar , that is because " the slums of beverly hills ( 98 ) " went over the same ground but was fortunate to be more comical and perceptive due to alan arkin and natasha lyonne performances , in which they were fortunate to have a much sharper script to work with . alvin sargent's script was weak and annoyingly claustral . wayne wang's ( " the joy luck club " ) inept direction made a weak script even weaker by his inability to tell the story unfolding without the voiceover relating what the action couldn't convey . so it becomes a question of who knows best , as the ladies fight it out between them , until the predictable sweet ending comes in this yawner . but the transition of her life into beverly hills had no feel of reality , as everything seemed staged and unemotional . this of course results in the corny ending , showing that mom's heart was always in the right place , only she went about it in the wrong way . this was just one of those films where you want to be anywhere but in the theater where this film is showing . 
1	producers : richard d . zanuck and lili fini zanuck and clint eastwood . director : clint eastwood . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , violence , adult themes ) running time : 126 minutes . in robert altman's film industry satire the player , an earnest young screenwriter pitches a death penalty " issue " drama called habeas corpus , which he insists should have " no stars " and a downbeat ending , because " that's reality . " capital punishment had been reduced to a plot device for a by-the-numbers crowd-pleaser . in hollywood , _that's_ reality . on the surface , true crime appears to be something a bit more highbrow , but it's still a frustrating gloss over a sensitive subject . true crime is naturally more everett's story than anyone else's , which might lead you to expect that he's the character who will learn , grow and change , especially since he has enough character flaws to fill a week's worth of jerry springer episodes . instead , eastwood doesn't even pretend that everett's crusade is about anything more than salvaging a shred of his professional dignity . the role is surprisingly flat , leading to a narrative where all that matters is the plot progression towards beachum's midnight deadline . beachum's final hours with his wife and daughter are given a lot of screen time -- perhaps to deflect the perception that this is yet another movie about a white man finding salvation through helping anonymous non-white characters -- yet those scenes serve primarily to tangle the film's themes . if we're watching beachum's torment simply to give everett's story a face , it's a trivialization of that suffering . and if we're watching to build sympathy for an innocent man , than a late twist which suggests beachum might be guilty is a manipulative cheat . the film plunges us into one side of the capital punishment debate when it serves its purpose , then tiptoes around the edges of the issue at other times to avoid the appearance of making a controversial statement . ironically , it's only the fact that true crime is a slick hollywood star project that makes it fairly watchable . eastwood once again gathers wonderful technical support -- cinematographer jack n . green , composer lennie niehaus , production designer henry bumstead -- to create impressive atmosphere . he also draws a slick supporting performance from james woods' as everett's crass editor-in-chief , a role which makes you wonder whether woods and denis leary accidentally swapped scripts but the result turned out perfectly . the buildup to everett's down-to-the-wire race to find exonerating evidence will probably work on you in spite of your resistance , but ultimately it's clear that eastwood's craftsmanship is disguising a genuinely weightless story . true crime is true hollywood , a disposable entertainment that toys with earnest respectability before turning into a chase thriller where the traffic is a bitch . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	and , although the play is an historical allegory for the mccarthy period , its true power lies in its ability to be re-interpreted to fit any time period . indeed , its fertile themes -- the lure of power , the gullibility of those who believe they have a moral imperative , the need to accept responsibility for the consequences of all actions , and the nature of truth -- are universal in scope . events such as those depicted in " the crucible " have recurred with alarming predictability throughout human history . scholars can argue about which of miller's two best plays ( " the crucible " and " death of a salesman " ) is the stronger work , but there's little doubt that " the crucible " is the most accessible . oddly , this is the first english-language motion picture version . with miller handling the screenwriting , it comes as little surprise that the crucible is faithful to its source material . those unaware of the film's background may be surprised to learn that such a dynamic production began life in the theater . miller has never claimed that his story is historically accurate , although many of the broader strokes correspond to events that actually occurred in salem , massachusetts during 1692 . one of the most contemporarily relevant aspects of the crucible , the ease with which justice can be manipulated and perverted , is what hytner and miller have chosen to highlight in this adaptation . a parallel-yet-integral theme relates to the thrill of power inherent in being the manipulator . as thematically rich as the crucible is , it would be a dry and uninteresting piece if the characters and their situations were less compelling . indeed , the human interest and drama of the story are what distinguish it . in the crucible , there are heroes and villains , but nothing is black and white . shades of gray permeate every action . much has been made of winona ryder's performance , but , while she does an excellent job fleshing out abigail as more than a cardboard instrument of vengeance and evil , two other actors captured my attention more forcefully . the first , perhaps unsurprisingly , is daniel day- lewis , whose john proctor takes on the dimensions of a classically- flawed tragic hero . graves' interpretation is wrenching , and deserves to be recognized alongside the performances of ryder and day-lewis . whether on stage or on film , " the crucible " is a powerful , thought- provoking production . this version illuminates the story's numerous strengths , resulting in a motion picture of surprising emotional and intellectual impact . by re-interpreting this classic so effectively , hytner has assured that at least one version of " the crucible " will become a part of film history . 
0	in greg harrison's ironically titled groove , the action is anything but groovy . the best way to summarize groove is that it is human traffic , denuded of all of that film's energy . an emotional zero , groove could be considered a strong anti-drug movie . after all , if drugs are this boring , why would anyone buy them . " you can relax -- it's just a party , " leyla ( lola glaudini ) tells a pseudo-nervous david ( hamish linklater ) . david needn't worry since everyone is so relaxed that a massive sleeping sickness appears about to strike at anytime . the movie would have us believe that they are planning a big heist , except -- hello ! -- the title of this movie is groove , remember . about the only joke in this lifeless movie is the password phrase used to purchase drugs . you say , " i'd like to buy a vowel . " with unreal characters that utter meaningless dialog , the movie drifts along on a drug-induced cloud of blissful shallowness . this typical interchange from the movie best summarizes the script's depth : " so ? " " so ? replies david . or was it the other way around ? it doesn't matter . nor does anything else in groove . groove runs 1 : 26 . it is rated r for drug use , language and brief sexuality and would be acceptable for college students , although i would not suggest that anyone waste their time on this piece of drivel . 
1	with joseph vilsmaier's warm and radiant cinematography and rolf zehetbauer's handsome period sets , post-world war i germany looks lovely and inviting . the relatively light-hearted story is structured into 3 parts . their memorable songs are of a type that most of you may not have heard before . the lyrics are childlike and silly with occasional and obscure double-entendre -- one such double-entendre mentions " sprouting asparagus , " for example . told you , they were obscure . the movie's best scenes are its simplest . their talents as singers are never in doubt even if their type of music may no longer have the universal appeal it did then . the long middle section of the movie has them , along with their girlfriends , wives , and one-night-stands , living like kings in the best hotels in europe -- their rapid rise to musical stardom being roughly akin to that of the beatles . the movie , which walks a fine line during the first two acts between light musical comedy and history , commits itself in the somber last act to being a message movie . carefree entertainment doesn't switch easily into serious melodrama . try as it will , the movie just isn't able to shift gears properly , despite its good intentions . the result is an enjoyable , historical story with a ponderous and sappy sound of music-style ending . whatever you do , don't leave before the epilogue that reveals what happened to the members of the group as well as to their spouses and lovers . it is not rated but would be an r for brief nudity , sexuality , drug usage and mature themes and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	long running series , whether on television or in the movies , have to be careful or they'll soon be running strictly on autopilot . so it appears to have happened to the fifteenth episode of the james bond saga , the living daylights . although he has the suave bond look down pat , dalton is missing some key ingredients . bond always has a sense of humor and seems , no matter how successful , to be somehow vulnerable . dalton doesn't crack a smile or ever seem to be in danger . that women want to jump in bed with him is completely convincing , but the rest of his character has a hollowness to it that makes him rarely credible or interesting . bond films are always travelogues in disguise . then it's on to colorful tangiers . cinematographer alec mills makes them all look inviting with the sand-swept desert being the most attractive . jeroen krabbe , who did such a fine job last year in lorca , plays general georgi koskov , a russian defector and double-dealer with a winsome smile , who is whisked away from the russians by 007 . maryam d'abo , resembling a young nastassja kinski , is kara milovy , the cellist and bond's love interest in the film . since he's the only funny part in an all too serious bond rendition , the story would have been better served if he had been given more screen time . the story is too choppy and just meanders from one locale to another without bringing the parts together into a compelling whole . the movie is at its most imaginative when james and kara escape from a falling plane , not with parachutes but in a jeep ! director john glen even manages to stage this ridiculous scene in a semi-plausible fashion . arguably the high point of the film is the display of q's latest gadgets , the best being a ghetto blaster that lives up to its name . the living daylights runs too long at 2 : 10 . it is rated pg for brief male and female nudity and violence and would be fine for kids around 9 or 10 and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was just " okay . " his overall complaint was that the story was " all pretty much just about bond trying to kill just this one guy . " 
1	the original the land before time is an involving , magical , and beautiful tale . this version is a sweet and harmless little story that will delight kids who are into the series , but the underdeveloped and formulaic story line will disappoint adult viewers . every time ducky delivers her canonical , " yep , yep , yep " response , a warmth goes through my whole body . these are the sort of animal characters that kids and adults of all ages can cherish . unlike the original of the series , which had the quite scary t-rex called sharptooth , this version has only a group of young bullies lead by hip . hip and his band and some mildly mean dinosaurs that appear at the end are weak villains , hence the show lacks any genuine tension . from the beginning it just meanders to a quick and fairly uneventful ending . hip declares , " when you're big . all the rules that grownups make don't apply to you , " and other such tough guy mottoes . true enough , but like most lines in the show , it is too stilted . the show ends before it ever gets started , and the narrator pedantically explains the message of the movie to us in case we missed it , telling us that the dinosaurs , " each learned the special kind of joy which comes from giving to others . " land before time iii runs 1 : 11 which is plenty of time given that not much happens . since what does happen is totally innocent with no real villains and very mild , non-scary violence , it justly gets a g rating . there is no sex or bad language . a kid of any age could see the film , and if they liked the others in the series , they will probably enjoy this one albeit probably not as much . i can not recommend the picture , but for the wholesome and lovable characters in search of a script and for wonderful , soothing , theme music ( james horner ) , i do give it * * , which may be a bit on the generous side . on the other hand , i love that " yep , yep , yep " line . you have to hear it to understand its appeal . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	cast : aaron eckhart , matt malloy , stacy edwards director : neil labute producers : mark archer , neil labute , stephen pevner screenplay : neil labute cinematography : tony hettinger music : karel roessingh , ken williams u . s . distributor : sony pictures classics in the company of men is one of those rarest of rare breeds -- a movie that doesn't just ignore hollywood conventions , but openly flouts them . the reason is simple : because of its brutally-direct depiction of certain aspects of the current north american social climate , in the company of men is anything but entertaining . it's virtually impossible to sit through this film without suffering bouts of intense discomfort , and therein lies its power . the picture begins as something much different than what it concludes as , and the metamorphosis occurs so gradually that it only becomes apparent in retrospect . ultimately , however , this only a small piece of the much larger pie into which neil labute's directorial debut slices . in the company of men widens its focus to encompass the falseness and gamesmanship that underlies many aspects of everyday human interaction . it's a cynical perspective that's all the more disturbing because it's grounded so deeply in reality . the characters here aren't cardboard cut-out stereotypes -- they're the kind of people you can find anywhere inside or outside of the workplace . have you ever seen anyone leap from the top of a skyscraper ? the revulsion and horror are indescribable , but the compulsion to look is too great to ignore . no matter how deeply the experience tears at the soul , we can not avert our eyes . it's a base reaction , but that's human nature . sitting through in the company of men is a cleaner , more guilt-free experience , but it's not entirely dissimilar -- much as we dread viewing what must happen , we cannot tear ourselves away . as painful as this film can be , it is never less than engrossing . the film doesn't follow a linear path ; it evolves continually , which is untrue of many lesser motion pictures . at the beginning , everything seems deceptively simple , but there are layers of complexity underlying each move . as the story unfolds , it becomes difficult to discern a genuine action from a duplicitous one , and once-clear motives grow murky . slowly , however , the truth begins to assert itself , and , for those who really understand what drives these characters , the ending will be inevitable , not surprising . much of labute's script is about manipulation and deceit , but he's smart enough to show the characters manipulating each other without turning that manipulation on the audience . nevertheless , because we become so involved in the interaction between these people , it's impossible for us not to be enflamed by what's transpiring , or to hope that justice comes from heaven in the form of a lightning bolt . part of us wants a deus ex machina resolution ; however , labute's solution is more true , albeit less cathartic . and , considering the overall impact of in the company of men , it's hardly worth mentioning the writer/director's few rookie mistakes ( static camera placement , occasionally stilted word choice ) . the lead actors , none of whom are well-known , give impressive performances . aaron eckhart , who has slightly more camera time than his fellows , brings a surprising depth of humanity to the charming-but- vengeful mastermind of the plan . if you want every movie that you see to be sleepless in seattle , avoid in the company of men . this movie doesn't take prisoners , and " feel good " is a term no one will ever use to describe it . but in the company of men deserves high praise because what it does , it does extraordinarily well . finally , here's a film with the guts to tell this kind of the story without turning it into a fairy tale . it's rare for any motion picture to generate such a profound sense of disquiet , but the path traversed by labute's characters is so bold that it's impossible not to be affected . 
1	elmore leonard novels have become staples for the movies in recent times , they become movies easily translated into money making glossy thrillers , noted for their amusing dialogue and smartly made stories . this film is no exception . it is entertainment for those who like fun pictures , placing no other demands on the filmmaker . clooney and lopez work well together , there is a chemistry between them on screen that belies the unbelievability of the story they are in . the magical attraction between these two , is very cleverly highlighted in this scene . she is intent on arresting him and moving up the ladder in the f . b . i . but to complicate matters , she is also taken with his good looks and charm . the cast is fine . the film is violent , it is sexy , it has romance and comedy in it , in fact , it has just about everything in it , except real intelligence , but then again , what results is a quick-paced actioner , that is easy to watch , and easy for the viewer to let his hair down a bit and be less critical , for this film is a well-conceived star vehicle that works on all cylinders of the entertainment scale . 
0	director doug ellin's kissing a fool , released earlier this year , is an aptly titled comedy about two plastic couples housed in an artificial story . like a sitcom with jokes so lame that it would be impossible to overlay a laugh track on it , the movie meanders along insulting the viewers' intelligence in almost every frame . the script by james frey and the director is filled with vapid actors who read meaningless lines you've heard before . max is played without any style by david schwimmer . schwimmer , whose acting talent is playing characters devoid of personality , makes an unlikely lover . neither the script nor the actors make this test believable . " the 64 , 000 question is : how do you know you're with the wrong person so you can avoid wreaking havoc on major parts of your life ? " jay asks in one of the unsuccessful attempts at adding some seriousness to the film . finally , there is the film's attempt at physical comedy . this is supposed to be funny ? most films have some saving grace . some bit part was done especially well or some scene managed to be funny even if the rest of the picture wasn't . kissing a fool , on the other hand , has nothing to recommend it . kissing a fool runs 1 : 45 . it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
2	cast : woody allen , mira sorvino , helena bonham carter , peter weller , michael rapaport director : woody allen producer : robert greenhut screenplay : woody allen cinematography : carlo dipalma u . s . distributor : miramax films and breaking into verses of " when you're smiling . " and all this is accomplished with an appropriate level of pomposity . mighty aphrodite , woody allen's 1995 film , lacks the brilliance and hilarity of his two previous efforts ( manhattan murder mystery and bullets over broadway ) , but it's not bad as a lightweight one-hundred minutes at the movies . thematically , the film is pretty thin , unless you consider that everyone's life can resemble a greek tragedy in one way or another . allen appears determined to craft a motion picture that can be laughed at without plumbing any especially deep neuroses of the human condition . woody allen really only has one on-screen personality , and he plays it here as usual , although , at this point in his career , he's getting a bit old for roles better suited to someone twenty years his junior . the only noticeable acting blot on mighty aphrodite is michael rapaport , who displays the same lack of range and energy he showed in higher learning . since , in bullets over broadway , jennifer tilly earned an oscar nomination for an inferior portrayal of a character of similar intelligence , sorvino deserves at least that much--if not more . this is a star-making outing by one of america's top young actresses . the most original element of mighty aphrodite is the use of the greek chorus . however , what starts out as a clever , innovative device quickly becomes tedious through overuse . at times , it's as if woody allen is attempting to take a page out of the monty python book , and those two very different styles of humor do not mix well . while not up to the level of many of allen's recent films , mighty aphrodite is nevertheless an entertaining diversion . the comedy , most of which is light and easily accessible , is worthy of some laughs , and the movie has a good sense of irony . mighty aphrodite is far from a tour de force , and some woody allen die-hards may be disappointed , but there's enough in this picture to recommend it . 
0	welcome to salem , and being the late 1600s , its time for witches . hocus pocus was disney's 1993 ode to halloween , and one of disney's lamest comedies . well , they do come back to life , but for all the laughs they get they should have stayed firmly in the grave . the script by neil cuthbert , mick garris , and david kirschner never finds its footing . sometimes it tries to be a beetlejuice clone , and other times it thinks it is a romantic comedy . it never has any convictions about its direction and stays constantly adrift . the best that can be said about the acting by the witches is that it is , well , bizarre . and rarely funny . for some reason , midler gets most of the dialog and the screen time . as for the other two , maybe their background roles are an advantage so that most people will not realize they were ever associated with this picture . making like the supremes , they jump right in and sing and dance their hearts out on stage . too bad , they couldn't have conjured up a little imagination and at least a few token laughs . the show should be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " good " but complained that he thought " the language was inappropriate . " i do not recommend this bland comedy , and i give it just a single * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 29 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	i love documentaries . if i had a bumper sticker on my car , it would probably read " this car breaks for documentaries " or " documentarians do it with realism . " of those practicing their craft today , leni riefenstahl is pretty much retired , michael apted is the best at this . i would suggest that everyone interested at all in film see his 28 up and 35 up . mtv directors and most american newscasts have the five seconds and cut rule . makes for a fast past , but does little to enlighten . both are first time film makers and the results show . nevertheless , this is an interesting and provocative film and worth seeing . if i had a single criticism , it is of the editing by stacia thompson and andreas troeger . lee's choice of subjects are fascinating , but the editors are way too influenced by mtv . lee should have edited the picture herself , and she should have spent more time on the synthetic pleasures part of the movie and less on the peripheral material like cryonics . so what does the documentary show us ? well , it starts mainly in japan with large indoor artificial environments of all types . this is the best part of the film . we see gigantic buildings where people inside are skiing , surfing , golfing , fishing , you name it . the film says people like these better than the real thing because they are guaranteed consistency and perfection - the snow will always be white powder , the waves large , the fish biting , etc . the movie is a three way blend of visits to places of synthetic pleasures , talking heads about technology and computer animations . the first is the most fascinating , and the last the most boring . the expert's views provide as much comical relief as insights . the last quote seem apropos since i saw the movie the day after a ten statewide power outage ! it also reminded me of westworld where they have a little trouble with their artificial environments . see my recent review of it for more details . we have everything from old science fiction movies to women who want to use virtual reality to feel the sexuality of a man to people discussing all of the places on their bodies that have been pierced to a section on cyberporn . lee takes a kitchen sink approach which almost sinks the film . one is french performance artist orlan who tells us , " i gave my body to art . " in a very gory sequence we see her face being cut open so that her doctor can make large puffy areas the size of a sliced peach above her eyes . another low point in the show is a very spaced out guy with rings all over his body and with multicolored hair who informs us , " i definitely think artificial intelligence is happening and will take over . " the film is full of pop science , and provocative choices of experts . the film is not rated , but would be an r . it has nudity , sexual situations , and one gory scene . it would be fine for most teenagers . i recommend this film to you even with its flaws . the good parts are fascinating , and if you don't like a section , all you need do is wait two minutes , and the film will have switched to something else entirely . i give the show * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	like all the best historical fiction , this trilogy uses real characters and real events , but imagines and re-invents relationships and circumstances . the resulting narratives are complex and entertaining , featuring ample quantities of swashbuckling adventure while focusing on well-rounded characters and murky politics . while the three musketeers has been adapted more than a dozen times for film and television , this new version of the man in the iron mask is only the sixth ( the last was 1979's the fifth musketeer ) . the writer/director is randall wallace , who scripted braveheart for mel gibson . the problem with this movie is that wallace has attempted to squeeze a 500-page book into a 130-minute motion picture , something that can't be done without major sacrifices . the resulting product is high on melodrama and low on the character depth and political machinations that are the novel's strengths . the man in the iron mask is also surprisingly devoid of gripping adventure . although the basic plot follows that of the novel , the central characters , older versions of the four musketeers , have been simplified into generic heroes . their motives , as presented in the movie , are superficial . dramatically , the film is weak , and plays more like a soap opera than a screen adaptation of a classic novel . the costumes and set design are impressive , but they're all just window dressing . the plot has the hit-and-miss feel that one might expect from any attempt to cram so much material into such a limited running time . the characters aren't all that interesting , since much of their complexity has been stripped away to make them more familiar and appealing to today's movie-going crowd . ( for example , the aramis of the book comes close to being a villain , but the aramis of the movie is unquestionably heroic . ) the unfortunate result is that the first 90 minutes , which are primarily intended to be dramatic , come across as rather dull . only in the final half-hour , when we are treated to several displays of derring-do , does the man in the iron mask come alive . the somewhat stilted and occasionally- ripe dialogue doesn't roll easily off his tongue and , for the most part , he gives the impression that he's playing dress-up . those who found dicaprio inadequate in romeo + juliet will likely cringe at his work here . judith godreche , who was strong in ridicule , is reduced to a lifeless mannequin as louis' mistress , christine . and anne parillaud , who hasn't been impressive since la femme nikita , offers a flat interpretation of queen anne , louis' widowed mother . fortunately , the veteran actors playing the musketeers are far better , and they have the lion's share of the screen time . malkovich is as delicious as ever , and it's refreshing to see him in a role where the primary characteristic is nobility rather than psychotic behavior . gerard depardieu is delightful as the somewhat-fatuous porthos . and , as aramis , jeremy irons gives his most lively performance in a long time . while the last half-hour is exhilarating and recalls the best swashbuckling movies , the film takes a little too long to get there , and , along the way , is only moderately successful as an historical drama or an adventure . dicaprio's name will undoubtedly give this picture a box-office boost , but his two characters aren't the movie's focus ? the aging musketeers are . and those who are interested in learning how their stories end will find greater satisfaction in reading dumas' novel than in sitting through this thin adaptation . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
1	despite exploring a fascinating and lurid american subculture that rarely gets film exposure , johns is consistently underwhelming . the movie , brought to the screen by first-time director scott silver , would have been better served by attempting a low-key character study a la gus van sant's similar , superior my own private idaho . instead , what we get is a modern-day version of a greek tragedy with some unnecessarily intrusive and irritatingly obvious religious symbolism thrown in for good measure . if you haven't guessed the film's heavy-handed ending by the half-way mark , you aren't paying attention . johns takes its name very seriously . many of the incidents are supposedly drawn from real-life stories , but silver's film making never attains the level of gritty realism that would have made them believable . but the trip , like the hotel room , costs money , and that's something neither man has much of . david arquette ( the deputy in scream , and a sibling of roseanna and patricia ) presents an effective portrayal of an aimless drifter . his john doesn't expect much out of life , and his low expectations aren't disappointed . he has aspirations of " going somewhere , " but both we and he recognize that he'll never amount to much . we know far less about his past than we do his future . the most compelling performance is turned in by lukas haas ( everyone says i love you ) , whose sincerity and optimism as donner is heartbreaking . the supporting cast is peppered with familiar faces . perhaps the essential theme of johns is summed up in one of john's lines : " people come and go . in the end , however , the film gets caught up in trying to tell a grandly melodramatic tale , when a simple , down-to-earth story of broken dreams and lonely characters would have been more engrossing . too often , the naturally-effective elements of johns are swamped by the forced , scripted ones , and that curtails the movie's power and appeal . 
1	it's not the mixture of comedy and drama--plenty of films manage to intertwine the two with aplomb ; rather , it's the vastly different performance levels of the leads . debra winger , a mature and competent actress , has developed a dramatic style that she uses to good effect . billy crystal , on the other hand , is his usual character : self-deprecating , glib , and entirely unconvincing in scenes requiring emotional displays . put simply , when winger shines , crystal is awful , and when crystal is at his best , winger fades into the background . the most apparent result is that the characters never really connect . saturday night and forget paris offer compelling evidence that crystal in his capacity as director/actor should stay away from films that require dramatic range . the man is more of a personality than a performer . he writes good jokes and has a funny delivery . in this film , his best moments occur when he's trying to make the audience laugh . the script , however , goes for slick one-liners in place of woody allen's insight , and the ending lacks emotional honesty . but what else have we come to expect from lowell ganz and babaloo mandel , kings of the happy ending ? these two dribble so much honey on every screenplay they touch that it's a wonder audiences haven't gone into sugar shock . but even this unexpected turn of events can't break the lovers apart . this is one of those rare occasions when voiceovers actually work--they allow for moments of comic flair to punctuate a story that often gets too sentimental . unfortunately , this also means that a fine supporting cast gets very little screen time . if so , he's missed the mark . with its uneven tone , forget paris doesn't have enough comedy or heartfelt romance to eclipse its faults . crystal and winger don't make a vibrant couple , and the various tribulations in their characters' relationship seem like episodes designed to set up the " wonderful " ending . in his second directorial stint , crystal has repeated most of the faults of his first ( the aforementioned mr . at least this time , we don't have to endure the terrible old-age makeup on top of everything else . 
2	as you sit watching bonnie hunt's adult fairy tale , return to me , it's easy to convince yourself that this old-fashioned romance must be a remake of some 1940's movie . with its sweetly sappy scenes of love and courtship , it tells a delightful story that is a throwback to a simpler time at the cinema . then it hits you . this can't be remake of something that you saw decades ago because the kickoff point for the plot concerns a medical procedure ( heart transplant ) that hasn't been around very long . this is where the magic in the plot comes in . when bob first lays eyes on grace , both smile and feel like they've met before . the chemistry between the lovers is genuine and never rushed . the parts of the script that challenge the pg rating are the intensity of the early tragedy . sex isn't part of the storyline . the result of the discovery is predictable , but who cares . this heart-warming movie ( pun intended ) is an unabashedly sentimental love story , not a mystery . return to me runs 1 : 53 . it is rated pg for language and thematic elements and would be fine for kids around 10 and up . my son jeffrey , almost 11 , liked all of the movie except for the initial tragedy . giving it * * * , he said that he found the movie hilarious and that he especially liked seeing carroll o'connor . 
2	date released : 10/15/93 running length : 1 : 39 rated : pg-13 ( mature themes , language , sexual situations ) it's very difficult to do a romantic comedy right . because the outcome is almost never in doubt , the plot becomes little more than a conveyance - a means to an end . as a result , no matter how strong the storyline is , there are limits to its effectiveness . successful romantic comedies work because of solid performances by the actors ; well-rounded , developing characters for them to play ; and that certain je ne sais quoi ( often referred to as " chemistry " ) which allows the audience to believe , however momentarily , that these two people are actually in love . happily for those who enjoy these sorts of movies , mr . of course , what's obvious to the audience from the beginning , but takes the characters much longer to figure out , is that the pair who split up still love each other . mr . wonderful is a generally well-written , mostly intelligent romance that's more of a light drama than a comedy . most of the silly cliches and ridiculous plot elements that clutter up most entries of the genre are absent . instead of the story forcing the characters into silly situations created solely to spark laughter , this movie tries hard to place gus and lee in believable circumstances that allow their personalities to come out . because , as the writers and director anthony minghella ( who made truly , madly , deeply ) obviously realize , for this type of movie to work , it's necessary for the audience to care about the people on screen . and we do care . not only about the principals , but about some of the minor characters as well . the actress is excellent in tragic roles ( she played much the same sort of person in grand canyon ) , and many of her scenes contain an element of pathos . there are times when the viewer sympathizes far more with rita than with either gus or lee . throughout much of mr . it's present , as is requisite with this type of movie , but minghella keeps things low-key . there are several opportunities left unused that another script might have shamelessly plundered to tweak the viewer's emotions . their chemistry is not sexually-charged , and it's clear that there's something beyond the physical between them . mr . wonderful does the little things right , which is also important . the things that are wrong with mr . wonderful are the same things that are wrong with just about every other movie of its kind - it's sentimental and occasionally silly , but as a romance , it's rock solid . mr . wonderful doesn't aspire to anything more than it is , and such a simple , uncomplicated presentation , coupled with generally-likable and believable characters , makes this film a fine piece of entertainment . 
2	apple , the ( sib ) ( director : samira makhmalbaf ; screenwriter : mohsen makhmalbaf ; cinematographer : ebrahim ghafouri/mohamad ahmadi ; editor : mohsen makhmalbaf ; cast : massoumeh naderi , zahra naderi , ghorbanali naderi , azizeh mohamadi ; runtime : 85 ; 1998-iran/france ) it is based on a true event and uses the actual family involved in relating this odd but wonderful story , which is told in a wryly humorous manner . this ignorance is bliss tale , a tale with no given solution , seems like it is a documentary , but instead it mixes fact and fiction , as it adds setup fictional pieces to its factual story ; and , this national story in iran , which was widely reported in their media causing a national scandal , plays here with a dazzling sense of wonderment and complexity . it makes a potent statement about women's rights in a country where women are seen as inferior , and it also symbolically calls for more freedom for all people . 
1	screenplay : david o . russell . director : david o . russell . mpaa rating : r ( violence , profanity , adult themes ) running time : 111 minutes . it was all night-vision and smart-bombs , desert shields and protections of sovereignty -- a just war waged against a power-mad dictator . there's more than a little irony to the fact that three kings is just as visually striking as the gulf war , and nearly as shaky in its substance . sgt . special forces capt . archie gates ( george clooney ) also learns of the map , but believes there's far more to be had than cell phones and rolexes -- specifically , bunkers filled with millions in gold bullion . as a moderately revisionist history lesson , there's no question that three kings both engages and enlightens . provocative moral dilemmas abound in three kings , which should be the stuff of compelling drama . somehow , it just isn't . the messages are similar to those familiar from anti-war films like paths of glory , m * a * s * h and platoon -- war is even more hellish when policy has little to do with humanity -- yet the characters are not nearly as strong . he can also create plenty of urgency with his stylistic flourishes , of which plenty abound . three kings is a genuinely eye-catching piece of work in which russell makes bold choices to drive home a point , from the graphic internal images of a wounded body to the slow-motion punctuation of bullet wounds as video game warfare tears through real flesh . unfortunately , the same impulse to drive a point home leads to scenes in which a scene described in dialogue is simultaneously portrayed on screen . in retrospect , i'm not sure why i still admired three kings as much as i did . it's certainly an unconventional film , zig-zagging between dark comedy and raw drama with surprising effectiveness . every once in a while , russell will do one of those little things that remind you how invigorating cinema can be . there's just not enough to shake the sense that three kings is too enamored of its sense of historical importance . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	vibrant culture . great people . thinking of hanging out here for a while . eat the rich . if i got a postcard like that , i would think of getting a new best friend . this is a story which turns out to be so flat and without emotion and plays like a film you can almost swear you saw before even if you didn't , that's how forgettable and regretable the story and the acting are . it almost makes you wonder what the filmmaker is trying to say about this trite conundrum his protaganist has . the film never comes to any surprises or reveals anything you wouldn't have known if you didn't see the film . which is why , i would think the sensible thing to do for those who value how they spend their time , would be to avoid this one . at least , that's what i would do if i had it to do over . but that's not to say that the film was so terrible that it can't be seen , that would not be true , since it is not so bad as it is a case of it being so dull that it negates any enjoyment value . why toni is a poet , we have to take as a statement of fact coming from the filmmaker , because he appears like an obnoxious jerk and an actor who is badly miscast , and there was no evidence given in the film that he shows even enough intelligence to spell poet , let alone to even consider him to be a poet . chris , as a bohemian , was too pathetic to seriously believe and not funny enough to laugh at . but what was really laughable , was the filmmaker's bourgeois conception of what a bohemian is . what's left for the story to tell , are those predictable scenes of the friend who is not the friend he pretends to be , but someone who is jealous of his friend' material comforts and satisfying marriage . there's a new bresson playing . " this film will not be mistaken for a bresson . trust me on that . the film was able to muster one great line of dialogue , and it comes from marion , as she tells her hapless hubby , " you will get married because you are not original enough not to . " 
0	if imitation is the sincerest form of flattery , then the sixth sense , the surprise hit of the summer , should feel honored by stir of echoes since the stories are like fraternal twins . both have frightening , horror picture elements and both feature a young boy who communicates with dead people . stir of echoes , which by comparison might more aptly be titled no sense , insults the viewers' intelligence at every turn . writer and director david koepp falls back on every clich ? in the book to advance the storyline . the overly serious movie will likely have you laughing out loud at some of the film's ridiculously implausible and downright silly parts . in contrast to haley joel osment's brilliant performance as the boy in the sixth sense , zachary david cope gives a loquacious but emotionless performance as jake witzky , a 5-year-old " receiver . " it's an embarrassingly bad , over-the-top performance for an actor as good as bacon . there's even the equivalent of a receiver's anonymous meeting to which tom is invited . too bad he doesn't go ; it could have supplied some much-needed levity . " come on , what's the worst that can happen ? " a lot it turns out . the movie's best line mixes tom's notorious wandering eye with his current predicament . " what exactly don't you understand ? " for viewers the list of things they don't understand would be long . at the top of such list of conundrums might be why he would choose to fill his refrigerator completely full of nothing but dozens of large containers of orange juice ? even if it's not quite as bad as the haunting , which established the low point for this year's horror flicks , stir of echoes would be better saved for video , when you can keep your finger on the fast-forward button in order to skip the more preposterous incidents . actually , skipping it all would be a better strategy entirely . it is rated r for violence , sexuality and language and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
1	disney made a cartoon version of the story in 1967 , and famous director zoltan korda made a live action film of it during the war ( 1942 ) . in this 1984 disney version , stephen sommers is the director and the screenwriter . he says of it the jungle , " the jungle speaks to me because i know how to listen . " lee's acting is a bit too serious for my taste , but he tries hard . whereas the frightening scenes may scare off the youngest kids , the love part may lose the slightly older ones as well . at least their interest may wane . this movie version of the story is true to the book which means that it will scare younger kids . we have scenes of tigers attacking and killing people . people die realistic deaths in quicksand . the death scenes , while not overdone , are nevertheless realistic . he informed me after the show that he thought the movie would be fine for kids 7 1/2 and over , thus cutting himself out of the appropriate age group for the show . apparently it troubled him more than i realized . the technical aspects of the film are impressive . the cinematography is lovely . the forest and most of the picture is filmed in bright colors with a predominate jungle green complimented by earth tones of brown . in one of the most impressive pieces of cinematography we have a scene of an indian town at night . the best acting is by all of the animals . of these , i thought the monkeys were the best . certainly shere khan , the tiger , is the most frightening . the jungle book runs too long for a kids' movie at 1 : 51 . the film is rated pg . do not let any child under 5 see it . as far as older kids , i still think those 7 and above generally will be able to handle it . certainly by age 9 , there will be no problems . jeffrey gives it a partial thumbs up as he does not like being scared at all by a picture . i give it a thumbs up and award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : may 25 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	too bad their celluloid debut could not have been in a better movie , but since they worked on the idea for the story , they have themselves partly to blame . the movie's lackluster beginning may convince you , as it did the guy behind me , that the movie might be a good time to catch up on your sleep . hang in there , though , because the girls' undeniable charm will begin to work its magic on you as it did me . the show has two distinct parts -- singing and non-singing . kim fuller's script for the latter feels as though it were thrown together . sometimes the jokes work , but too often they are hopelessly lame . the highly energetic vocal numbers , of which there should have been more , pulsate with energy . the relatively confusing story concerns rival groups that are making and proposing to make movies about the spice girls . the movies include a straightforward documentary and a variety of other pictures such as spice force 5 -- think of the action figure possibilities . the film's humor works best at its most self-deprecating . another sequence pokes fun at the group's popularity . roger moore , among other stars , take on small roles in the picture . richard e . grant plays the group's merciless manager . " you have a schedule . " with grenville horner's multicolored set designs and editor andrea macarthur's colorful spiral-swirl scene transitions , the images are inviting even when the story isn't . " did anyone care if marilyn monroe could act ? " you can judge for yourself . what is clear is that they can certainly have a good time . the silly show's high-spirited frivolity does eventually win you over mainly due to the inherent charm of its stars . stick around afterwards as the girls will be talking directly to you during the cute closing credits . it is rated pg for light profanity and a little sexual innuendo . the show would be fine for kids around seven and up although they may need to be older to be interested . 
1	that notion explains a lot about how the film incarnation of leave it to beaver ended up as it did . i don't remember ward as a well-intentioned but emotionally immature doofus . the central character of leave it to beaver isn't really theodore " beaver " cleaver ( newcomer cameron finley ) , or his older brother wally ( erik von detten ) , and certainly not june ( janine turner ) . he's too busy damaging the lad's self-esteem by creating unrealistic expectations and appearing judgmental . and it's too bad , because there's a silly , innocent quality to leave it to beaver which makes it better than you'd expect from yet another tv retread . the comedy comes from the kind of predictably broad slapstick common in most contemporary comedies for kids , but it's blessedly free of toilet gags and exaggerated mayhem . brian levant and lon diamond's script ( levant worked on the syndicated " the new leave it to beaver " series in the 80s ) is often surprisingly clever , and even more surprisingly clean . the performances are sit-com simple yet mostly appealing , particularly that of the agreeably adorable cameron finley . it's obvious that leave it to beaver isn't meant to court the nostalgia audience , unless it is through the inclusion of barbara billingsley ( the original june ) and ken osmond ( the original eddie haskell ) in cameos . those viewers might actually enjoy seeing the cleavers portrayed as a healthy and happy family , rather than just another dysfunction waiting to happen . this leave it to beaver is unabashedly 90s in a fairly depressing way : it takes paternal incompetence as a given . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	ed's next move is a charming little low budget picture where the actors seem less like actors than people on whom you are getting to eavesdrop . i glad he did for this delightful film had me in constant chuckles . my only big laugh came in the perfect conclusion , but every comedy does not to be a laugh riot like tootsie to be worth seeing . ross is terrific as the classic awkward and shy guy , and his awkwardness mirrors the awkwardness of the script , funny thought it is . i haven't been with four women in the same time zone . " there are several little imaginary vignettes in the film . all of the humor in the show walks the fine line between dialog that you laugh at versus laugh with . for me the script is precious and it works , but the two other reviews i have seen of the show range from a near perfect rating to a near bomb . actually , i can understand both perspectives , but as eddie says , " in some things , the more i analyze them the less clear they become . " don't analyze this film , just kick back and laugh with it . it is an intransitive act . " disgusted , ray informs him that , " if you talk like that to her , it will be a non-existent act . " all three of the principle actors show promise , but ross is the best . his false starts in kissing are classics , but the funny setups provided by the script should get some of the credit . the picture is helped by an excellent score which is quite unusual in a low budget film . at first the music is dominated by jazz pieces composed for the film and played by benny golson . toward the end of the picture , it switches to funny folk songs sung by the san francisco alternative band ed's redeeming qualities . one of their best songs ends with the line , " i wish there were more bad times to see you through . " it is rated r for a few cuss words , one very brief sex scene , and a two swing fist fight . there is no nudity . i think this sweet and upbeat little picture would be fine for all teenagers and probably some slightly younger kids as well . i had fun with the show and recommend it to all except those of you who need a highly polished product . the show gets * * 1/2 from me . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	the glass house is an entertaining thriller that almost works . using a predictable script by wesley strick ( the saint ) , long-time television director daniel sackheim brings a strong sense of visual style and foreboding . the formulaic film is shot in the cool blue tones that are all the rage today in movie mysteries . although she is talking about ruby's sketching , this advice obviously is meant for the audience . the problem with the script is that most of the plot " twists " are both simple and easy to spot . when the writer worries that things aren't completely obvious , he inserts the visual equivalent of exclamation points to make sure we understand . the glasses live in -- yes , you guessed it -- a big , glass house . thankfully , the glass metaphor ends there . the squabbling siblings are the most believable part of the picture . did i mention yet that the kids come with a big inheritance ? doesn't matter . even if i didn't , i'm sure you've already guessed it . " hi , you guys need some help ? " " yes , " ruby replies with succinct understatement . the writer needed some help too , but he didn't get it . the director , however , does his best to keep your attention and generally succeeds . it is rated pg-13 for " sinister thematic elements , violence , drug content and language , " and would be acceptable for kids around 12 and up . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	if you have been lucky enough to spent some time in ireland as i did for three weeks , you know how beautiful it is . the movie shows off beautiful scenery without tending to overpower the story as some movies do , e . g . , legends of the fall . the cinematography by kenneth macmillan was peaceful and serene in a natural and graceful way . i think this may the age of the wallflowers . as you would guess , there are complications and complexities . it would be nice to have religion appear in a movie every now and then in a positive light . after all , we have lots of movie glorifying everything from gangsters to heavy drinking to you name it . oh well , . . . the problem with the movie is that , based on the information i just gave you , you could write the script now , and you would probably be close . the writer ( andrew davies ) took no risks , and the result is a completely predictable plot . the director ( pat o'donnell ) went the safe route as well making for a nicely homogenized show . this is all quite surprising since the talent of minnie driver was clear and yet was so often underutilized . moreover , the writer also wrote the very inventive script for the to play the king british series recently on pbs here and the director did the extremely moving and imaginative movie cal . although it could have been much better , and although i was able to forecast every turn in the movie , i did enjoy being a member of benny's circle of friends for a couple of hours . she was a character i'm glad i got to know . her strength of conviction and her charm wove a spell on me . it is rated pg-13 for sexual discussions and scenes . there is no nudity of any kind and no violence . the movie would be fine for anyone old enough to be seriously interested in romance , say 10 and above i guess . i give the movie a mild thumbs up with the reservations mentioned above , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : march 31 , 1995 opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	screenplay : d . v . producers : tim bevan and rudd simmons . director : stephen frears . mpaa rating : r ( profanity , sexual situations , adult themes ) running time : 110 minutes . at first glance , there's every reason to believe john cusack is the ideal cast for rob gordon , the protagonist of high fidelity . few actors could pull off the amount of narration required of rob without becoming instantly annoying ; even fewer could make self-absorption somewhat sympathetic . so why does cusack seem ever-so-slightly wrong in a role that should be so right ? it's not the sharp comic setting crafted by director stephen frears and a team of four writers ( adapting nick hornby's novel ) . cusack is fine as the saner center , but his co-stars are superb . black's barry is an aggressive , abrasive pedant who delights in the power of dispensing arcana or withholding a rare record ; louiso's dick is a portrait in awed fan-geek deference . it's not the focus on rob's relationship history , either . the gimmicky casting is occasionally distracting , but not so much so that it overwhelms the strengths of the individual episodes . there's even some charming wisdom in high fidelity's acknowledgement that middle school make-out sessions can stay with you for life , or that a skillfully made mix tape can speak from the heart . no , the one key problem with an otherwise thoroughly entertaining film is that cusack's screen persona is just too . . . nice . rob is a somewhat unreliable narrator , since it is gradually revealed that he's caused just as much emotional damage as has been done to him . combine his romantic irresponsibility with his musical snobbery , and you've got a character that should be played with more jerkish , immature edge . with cusack , the nice guy is too dominant . rob's confessions -- which should have played as calculated attempts to win us to his side -- feel more like guileless soul-baring coming from cusack's mouth . and they never quite feel right . it's only then that you can feel enthusiastic about wishing for rob's happiness . high fidelity's sharp wit could have made up for a multitude of sins , when in fact it only has to make up for one ; there's more than enough quality film-making to weigh in the film's favor . there's also that nagging realiation that rob's not the good-natured hero we all want him to be when john cusack is playing the part . cusack has proven himself to be a talented , versatile actor , but there's a guy we've come to know and love in off-beat romantic comedies like the sure thing , say anything and grosse pointe blank , and it's hard not to listen to cusack reveal personal traumas without expecting that guy . even when high fidelity is at its most inspired , you can tell that rob gordon isn't that guy . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	in contrast , the invincible commando elite , a dirty dozen version of g . i . joe-type action figures , have a commander , chip hazard , who would make general patton proud . in a movie filled with references to older films , the voices of many of the commandos are done by ernest borgnine , jim brown , and others from the dirty dozen . the resulting dark comedy , while likely to scare the daylights out of the more impressionable younger viewers , will delight most audiences as it pushes the limits of what is expected and acceptable from a live-action movie featuring toys that come to life . the soldiers , designed by jurassic park's stan winston , look like live toys rather than animatronic or computer-generated figures that mimic toys . irwin exclaims . from metal-pronged corncob holders to nail guns to aerosol flame-throwers , their arsenal is impressive and imaginative . in the darkest scene in the story , nude barbie-like dolls mix trite teen talk with fighting slogans - " if you can't accessorize , pulverize ! " small soldiers borrows scenes and soundtracks from other movies . one of the funniest sequences is an homage to real life . it is rated pg-13 for violence and profanity and would be fine for kids nine and up . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was great and gave it * * * * . 
2	cameron crowe ( say anything . . . /singles/jerry the film is not raucous rock , but offers a sweet view of the music world , pointing out why its popularity is high among adolescents , while also exploring its business side . the casting was perfecto , not that the acting was necessarily arresting , but it was that everyone seemed natural for their roles and gave expression and a sense of truth to what was happening . all you can do is write about them honestly . that will be the mantra of the film and also its hardest attack on the industry , but it is carried out to perfection by this great cast and directed with a sure-hand for drawing out the comedy and whatever goodness there is in the artists and the groupies who follow them . but the film will go on to show that everyone connected with the music is delusional , the musicians are not as serious about their music as they pretend to be and the " band aids " are only fooling themself if they think they're not groupies , as they stroke their unsatisfied egos by basking in the glory of someone else . he , thusly , fails to heed lester's advise . what i thoroughly enjoyed about the film was the casual way it let its characters act and be themselves , even if it was rehashing characters and rock music scenes played out in many such films , but here it seemed to be very easy to absorb and take in without dissecting that 1970s hippie scene . instead , it let the story make whatever sense it could without going overboard . i doubt very much if the film caught the full-flavor of that period , but it did catch what it had to , and all the characters avoided falling into being stereotypes . billy crudup is a very fine actor and he is able to be different things to different people in this film without making it seem as if he were disingenuous . the film might not have been flawless , with some mild lapses in character development ( groupies were thinly sketched ) and the story resolvement was not convincing ( a contrived bumpy plane landing scene , where the band fearing death confess what they really think of each other ) , but the overall zeal of the film overtakes those gaffs and allows the film to be much better than being merely a nostalgia film , and much more entertaining than any serious rock film i have seen . cameron crowe seems to have found a niche in making teen films that are much better than teen films . he seems to have an ageless sympathy for teenagers and for those who teens idolize , not categorizing them as either good or bad people . also , this film is suitable for both parents and kids , r rating or not , which is not an easy chore to accomplish when making a hip film . but moms should like it , as the frances mcdormand characterization was more eccentric and mannered than one-dimensional , and after all , the kid listened to her and didn't take any drugs ( at least it wasn't shown in the story ) . 
2	although the films were often easy to dismiss , the actress' consistently fine performances were not . finally , with the ice storm , ricci was given a role of import in a film of substance . ricci's performance is only one reason why don roos' the opposite of sex is a success . this is perhaps the most audacious film of the year to date ( at least among mainstream releases ) , filling the slot left vacant by 1997's in the company of men . the opposite of sex is the kind of daring feature that doesn't open every friday at the local multiplex ; its frank , sometimes politically incorrect approach towards the act and politics of sex is refreshing . and , in addition to dealing with intrinsically provocative material , first-time director roos uses the unique approach of satirizing the conventions of road pictures and dysfunctional family dramas to tell his story . in particular , he has a lot of fun with the voice-over . the glib narrator , deedee truitt ( ricci ) , is aware that she's speaking to a movie audience , and , as a result , can't resist the opportunity to have some fun at the viewer's expense . in her opening monologue , she informs us that " things get very complicated very quick , and you're going to have trouble getting through it without me talking , " then , in case we mistake her for a cute-but- misunderstood 16-year old , she warns us that " i don't have a heart of gold and i don't grow one later . " at another time , she " shows " scenes of things that don't really happen , then laughs at our gullibility for believing them . although deedee is the narrator and , consequently , has the largest speaking part , she's not the film's central character . as comedies go , the opposite of sex is one of 1998's most consistently funny . of course , humor is subjective , and i'm known for being a little warped in that area , so roos' flamboyant , out-on-a-limb approach is perfect for someone like me . the dialogue is crisp and distinctive , occasionally invoking the spirit of something written by kevin smith ( clerks , chasing amy ) . however , it's obvious to roos ( and to us ) that this kind of slick , unconventional style can have trouble sustaining a feature-length movie . no matter how outrageous the tone , it grows tiresome after a while , so the writer/director changes gears during the second half . although the opposite of sex never completely loses its satirical , self-mocking edge , the final 50 minutes are more serious than what precedes them , and the humor is leavened by a couple of earnest , surprisingly-effective messages . one particularly intriguing concept is carl's assertion that maybe sex isn't for recreation or procreation , but for concentration ? that when a man and woman sleep together , the experience attunes them to each other . this is in contrast with deedee's largely-negative view of sex . while ricci's performance in the opposite of sex is the standout , it's not the most surprising example of acting , at least when one considers her previous critical acclaim . lucia proves that kudrow has a rarely-displayed range . so , with ricci and kudrow leading the way , the women in the opposite of sex are far more interesting than the men . martin donovan underplays bill as smart , affable , and bland . ivan sergei plays matt as dumb , affable , and bland . and lyle lovett portrays carl as strange , affable , and bland . the tag line for the opposite of sex is : " you'll laugh , you'll cry , you'll be offended . " while that's perhaps overstating the movie's impact , it's not completely off-base . the film manages to mix a portion of successful drama into its primarily-comic foundation , and conservative movie-goers will likely be turned off by the no-punches pulled , occasionally raunchy look at sex . however , with its memorable dialogue , solid performances , and idiosyncratic style , the opposite of sex is sure to be appreciated by those who aren't frightened away by the cinematic equivalent of hot chili . " my belief is that no movie , nothing in life , leaves people neutral . you either leave them up or you leave them down . " -- david puttnam 
2	cast : giancarlo esposito , regina taylor , isaach de bankole director : joe brewster producers : jordi torrent , joe brewster screenplay : joe brewster cinematography : igor sunara music : john petersen this multi-layered psychological drama uses fine performances by giancarlo esposito ( do the right thing ) , regina taylor ( a family thing ) , and french actor isaach de bankole ( night on earth ) , as well as an intelligent script by writer/director brewster , to tell a suspenseful tale . displaying a quality that's rare for american films these days , the keeper keeps the audience involved without telegraphing everything that's coming next . brewster is a psychiatrist , so it's no surprise that the psychological elements of the keeper are the most engrossing . brewster asks , but never answers , this question -- it's up to interpretation . the keeper isn't just powerful drama , it's an effective thriller . a subplot about how cops abuse their power dovetails nicely with the resolution of the main story , and the film's closing images are some of its most memorable . brewster doesn't follow conventional formulas , and , although there are surprises , all are perfectly logical considering the nature of the people involved . 
1	great premise , terrible execution . how many times have i written that line this year ? in the case of the long kiss goodnight , it's especially frustrating , though , because the basic idea is so intriguing -- the perfect background for a top- notch noir thriller . unfortunately , director renny harlin ( die hard 2 , cliffhanger ) wasn't at all interested in making a tightly-paced , character-driven movie . what we get instead is exactly what we've come to expect from him -- lots of gunshots , explosions , and general mayhem . when the smoke finally clears for the final credits , we may have had a tolerably good time , but there's no lingering satisfaction . the premise involves that age-old plot staple of soap operas : amnesia . but lacking a personal history doesn't really bother her because her present is so pleasant . maybe i was expecting a little too much from an action film , but the hitchcockian ideas are so juicy that they deserve deeper exploration . the action , unfortunately , is distressingly routine . alas , these are nothing more than visual candy . missing is the freshness that marked that action sequences in harlin's directorial debut , die hard 2 . davis is a good enough actress to carry off the dual identity , although charly seems a lot like a humorless cross between la femme nikita and a female james bond . sam is more appealing , which is obviously the intention . at least the end is about reconciling these disparate identities . jackson is magnificent , and i'm going to recommend the film largely on the basis of his turn as mitch . i wasn't wild about a long kiss goodnight as a whole , but this is the kind of delightful performance that deserves to be seen . jackson adds more than a dash of humor to the action mix , throwing out one-liners guaranteed to send audiences into paroxysms of laughter ( his line about people trying to get out of new jersey brought down the house , but that may have something to do with where i saw the movie ) . whenever jackson was on screen , i forgot about the film's shortcomings and appreciated what he was doing with mitch . ultimately , i suppose an individual's enjoyment of a long kiss goodnight will be greatly affected by expectations . if you're searching for a slick-looking , mindless , bond-derived action film with a buff female hero , this should fit the bill nicely . but if the premise leads you to expect something a little more interesting -- possibly even a change of pace for harlin -- a long kiss goodnight will disappoint . regardless of your viewpoint , however , keep your eyes on jackson , and you'll understand how i can generate some enthusiasm for this otherwise uneven , overblown explosions extravaganza . -- ingmar bergman 
1	after a long and highly publicized sojourn in release purgatory , the new version of lolita has finally made it into wide release at the theaters . the immediate question is was it worth all the fuss ? directed by adrian lyne in his usual flashy manner , the film lacks the literary feel and substance of stanley kubrick's 1962 classic starring james mason , shelley winters , sue lyon and peter sellers . jeremy irons with his sad , pensive eyes specializes in playing tragic characters . as humbert humbert , especially in the narration , he puts just the perfectly hopeless spin on the role that lyne wants . irons , who is never less than riveting , rises way above the rest of the presentation . his narrations of vladimir nabokov's rich text from the novel are the film's high points . the major problem with the production is the casting of dominique swain as lolita . her overly " cute " mannerisms almost single-handedly sink the picture . one of the least natural of actresses , her acting shows through on every scene and gets in the way of our ever taking the film seriously . the other two principles in the cast , melanie griffith as charlotte haze and frank langella as clare quilty , are perfectly satisfactory but little more . much is made of lolita's innocence . these displays of mock immaturity are directly contradicted by her actions , so few are credible . exquisitely filmed by howard atherton with a lovely gloss , the movie has meticulously constructed period sets . but lyne has little sense of proportion . he flaunts his reconstruction of " magic finger " beds and " tee pee " motels so often that one might think the movie was a smithsonian documentary . already too long , the film should have had most of these period homages cut . what purpose is served with detailed close-ups of the production of an old-fashioned ice cream float ? the movie ends badly in every sense of the word . do we really need all that gratuitous gore ? please ! it is rated r for aberrant sexuality , violence , nudity and profanity and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are both older and mature . 
2	it is an extremely moving tale that points to the ultimate hopelessness of the human condition . the script by claude berri and arlette langmann and the direction by claude berri pull no punches . this is a movie that rarely considers the gray areas , but paints everything in sharp contrasts . everything is either good or evil ; there is no middle ground . periodically , we glimpse the possibility of a few redeeming features in the rich , but generally they are portrayed as the devil incarnate . although the number of contrasts the film metaphorically presents seem innumerable , the ones that struck me the most were : rich vs . poor , day vs . night , above ground vs . under ground , light vs . dark , opulence vs . frugality , green vs . brown , workers vs . bosses , and capitalism vs . unionism . if you watch for them , you can see many more , and this contrast provides an extremely effective and propagandistic albeit one sided reading of history . the other , an anarchist i guess , says the only solution is to burn down all of the mines and factories and only out of this utter destruction will salvation arise . what a great bunch of choices zola provides ! we can change this lousy world . " within a week you'll all starve . then what will you do ? " the smallest increase will bankrupt me . " the second part of the film deals with the chaos that ensues once a massive strike is underway . the film ends well , but it is both dramatic and frightening . the acting is brilliant all round . there are many scenes where their acting is right on the edge . the supporting cast is also good , except for the bosses , but then again , they are made to seem so shallow that it would be hard for an actor to shine playing one of them . the cinematography by yves angelo is somber and striking , full of brown and black sepia tones . the sets by thanh at hoang and christian marti are evocative of great horror and misery . the most frightening scenes are those of the claustrophobic sets for the mines . the make-up by joel lavau and nathalie louichon provide just the right feel of the grit on a coal miner's face . germinal runs too long at 2 : 50 , and i would have preferred editor herve de luze to have made the movie not such an epic length . the film is rated r for sex , nudity , and violence . most of the film has little violence , but there are a few needlessly horrific scenes , including one of castration , that should have been edited out . nevertheless , it is my judgment that the movie would be fine for most teenagers . i liked the movie , recommend it to you , and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	the first half of this film drags . the coy sparring between miss bentley and the major can't sustain the viewer's interest by itself , and there's little else going on . trevor bentham's script is smart , dry , and , too often , stagnant . aside from a few droll comic interludes ( including a very funny tennis match ) , it takes a long time for a month by the lake to get moving . when it does , it's enjoyable in the way that most intelligent romantic comedies are enjoyable , but there is an obvious start-up penalty . as is often the case , no matter what kind of role she plays , redgrave steals the show . buoyant and cheerful , miss bentley is an instantly likable character--far from the sort of stodgy fifty- something englishwoman abroad one might expect . edward fox plays major wilshaw as a somewhat laughable , pompous bore . yet , even though the character often comes across as fatuous , fox knows when to reign in the comic element . there is a touching moment late in the film when wilshaw shows that , as thick as his emotional armor is , the proper thrust can still penetrate it . this scene , which takes place during a magic show , is a month by the lake's most serious , as well as one of its finest . uma thurman , fresh from the glitz of pulp fiction , intentionally overplays her role as an american hussy . taking a cue from the widows' peak performance of natasha richardson ( redgrave's daughter ) , thurman turns her miss beaumont into the perfect caricature--someone whose only two purposes are to add comic flair and romantic complications to a relatively static plot . without miss beaumont , nothing would have happened between miss bentley and major wilshaw , and without thurman , nothing would have happened in this movie . romance for the over-fifty crowd is a rare commodity in motion pictures . judging by the average hollywood take on the matter , one might easily assume that it's rare for someone with gray hair to fall in love . it's unfortunate that it takes so long to set up the situation , as the most lasting effect of this slow start is to dampen the eventual payoff . 
1	as the old adage goes , be careful what you wish for lest you get it and , by implication , loathe it . starring macaulay culkin in his first big role , the movie was a hit for its slapstick humor as well as the age-old theme of a kid who bests the grown-ups . ( the problem with your kids' watching movie series is that it is not always easy to start them with the first episode . it was a simple matter of a bad headcount on the airport shuttle and , what with the commotion of leaving , etc . , they didn't notice kevin's absence . culkin displays a wide range of acting emotions . he is especially cute hamming it up in front of the mirror . looking brave , wise , and yet vulnerable , culkin is perfect for the role . imaginative , kevin turns on all the lights , cranks up the stereo , and moves cardboard cutouts on his electric train to make his house look chockfull of adults . using relentlessly upbeat christmas music by star wars's john williams , the movie contrasts the joyous holiday season with the less than ideal situation in which kevin and his parents find themselves . although the two robbers are central to the storyline , the movie is at its best when they are nowhere to be seen . they cause the sweet , original movie to dissolve into cheap slapstick that you've seen many times before . a little of stern and pesci goes a long way , and home alone has them in almost every scene in the last half of the movie . too bad kevin's adversaries had to be so terminally stupid - the rest of the picture isn't . it is rated pg for comic violence and would be fine for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * * . 
0	( reviewer's note ) i saw the substance of fire at the press screening . locally in the san jose area , i am not sure of where it will be opening , but my guess is that it will be either the amc or the ua theater chain . the substance of fire is a movie that tries hard to be unlikable and succeeds . besides being about as much fun to watch as witnessing your neighbor's squabbles , the movie is on the low end of the believability scale . the film starts extremely well , and since this was an early screening , there were no press kits available and i had no idea what to expect . this is the best and only completely satisfying part of the show , but it lasts a mere two minutes before the picture switches to the present . with a death wish for his family's fortune , issac rejects the novel with the put-down , " you think i'm going to publish some trashy novel by some slicko hipster ? " since the company is currently broke , spending money you don't have will certainly force it into receivership . in an example of the trite and pompous sentiments typical of the script , landscape architect martin asks his students about a field of grass , " what is the one thing that landscape architecture requires ? " does anybody actually finish a book once they have formed an opinion of it ? " sarah makes her living acting in a cliched kid's tv show . there is one classic dilbert style line in the film . " it's a process . no one person can come to a conclusion . " it's not me , i'm just part of this bureaucracy . kafka would have liked the scene . the show is devoid of any characters you care about . director daniel sullivan has his actors thumb their noses at the audience . if the script were more insightful , perhaps its cadence would be tolerable , but as written , it is merely banal and implausible . there is no way this family would have ever been capable of amassing a fortune much less keeping it for more than a month . much of the show is pure hokum . when the script is not insulting , it attempts overwrought sentimentality . the director does not deliver a single subtle moment . the music and the cinematography are sincere and somber , quite fitting for a much stronger film than this piece of nonsense . the substance of fire runs 1 : 47 . it is rated r for some uses of the f word . the show is a mild r and would be fine for any teenager and probably for those a bit younger . there is no reason to see this meaningless show so i do not recommend it . it gets a single * in my book . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 8 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	the stupids is a pleasant surprise : a comedy about dumb characters that doesn't insult the audience's intelligence . unlike such recent offerings as dumb and dumber , the brady bunch movie , and kingpin , john landis' brand of humor doesn't rely on flatulence jokes , double entendres , or sexual innuendo . the stupids is relatively clean , entirely suitable for family viewing , and much funnier than countless films with harsher mpaa ratings . brent forrester's script is a machiavellian masterpiece of misdirection , misrepresentation , and mayhem . and be forewarned -- appearances can be deceiving . despite the title , this film is going to appeal more to the thinking viewer than someone who prefers to sit back and laugh at mindless gags . the best aspect of the stupids is seeing events from two perspectives -- that of a " normal " person and that of our intrepid heroes , a family so dense that , put together , their combined iqs would have trouble reaching the triple-digit level . with a vacuous affability , tom arnold plays stanley stupid , the good-natured head of the stupid clan . joan looks like she just stepped out of an episode of leave it to beaver . unlike in the past , however , he's no longer going to sit back and allow this sort of thing to continue . someone is draining the world of one of its most valuable resources : garbage . done in a style that recalls the tv series spoof get smart , the stupids is more likely to provoke chuckles than uncontrollable bursts of laughter , but the wit involved in constructing this screwball comedy is undeniable . even at a slim ninety minutes , the running length is probably a little too long , but , for the most part , the stupids is fresh and energetic . stupid humor like this requires a smart audience , and it's probably necessary to be a member of mensa to untangle all the relationships revealed in stanley's wacky musical number , " i'm my own grandpaw . " director john landis ( the blues brothers , amazon women on the moon ) , who has never been one to make conventional movies , manages to inject several viciously satirical sequences into the film . the stupids pokes fun at action movie heroes ( and does so in a far more effective manner than arnold schwarzenegger's bloated last action hero ) , late night tv talk shows , and afternoon tabloid programs . there's a delicious fantasy sequence with christopher lee playing the stupids' vision of sender . and there are cameos by film makers david cronenberg , atom egoyan , robert wise , and norman jewison , as well as centerfold- turned-personality jenny mccarthy . the stupids is loaded ( if not overloaded ) with all sorts of humor - - everything from satire and wordplay to slapstick . not a moment goes by when something amusing isn't happening , even if it's taking place in the background ( for example , when stanley outlines sender's plan , take a look at the notes in the margins of his master diagram ) . the stupids will be seen in different ways by different people , but one thing is abundantly clear : the film makers deserve congratulations for coming up with something this diabolically clever . 
1	date released : 5/28/93 running length : 1 : 50 rated : pg-13 ( language , mature themes , sexual situations , brief nudity ) yeah , there are a lot of implausibilities in this script , but the story moves along snappily enough that most of them are easily overlooked . more difficult to miss is richard benjamin's occasionally inadequate direction . there are numerous scenes that could have been a whole lot funnier had benjamin been more deft in choreographing them . too often , he is heavy-handed , but the film survives in spite of him . the first half of made in america is highly amusing . comedy is divided nicely between the outrageous and the subtle ( although bejamin likes to " point out " the less obvious moments by using tricks such as slow-motion ) . unfortunately , the comic momentum fades as the film moves to a climax , with the big " plot twist " near the end seeming like something out of bad television melodrama . there are a lot of different ways that the story could have gone ; the route it chooses is less-than-satisfying . surprisingly , although this is billed as a romantic comedy , i didn't find the romance between sarah and hal of particular note . despite the rumors linking goldberg and danson together off-screen , there doesn't seem to be much chemistry between them . i could believe these , which are at times touching and sweet , and on other occasions laced with bitterness . there's no question that the best performance is given by nia long . goldberg and danson don't have to stretch much to keep in character . never have i been more impressed with ms . tilly's acting than when she stares into the camera with that vacuous expression . one of the failures of made in america is in the way it introduces the two main characters . at the outset of the film , both sarah and hal are portrayed as irresponsible , arrogant , and thoroughly dislikeable . although they soften as the story progresses , and the audience gradually warms to them , this is not a positive way to start a movie . it's typical in a romantic comedy for one of the partners to be acerbic and unpleasant , but it's unusual for this to be true of both of them . had the comedy been less fresh , made in america might have lost me early on . as far as comedies go , this one is above-average , primarily because there aren't many clunkers among its jokes . character development is so-so , and there are number of problems , some of which are significant , about the way the story progresses during the last half-hour . overall , however , made in america is enjoyable . it handles the issue of a mixed-race relationship sensitively ( instead of sensationalistically ) and presents an intriguing look at a very different family dynamic . 
1	bittersweet comedies are tricky at best even under the most expert guidance . this schmaltzy ode oscillates between comedy and tragedy , but only the comedy is successful . the script by david e . kelley based on michael brady's play has characters in constant banter that puts the audience in stitches . as soon as they begin to enjoy the film , however , it switches back to its maudlin roots , and people just stare at the screen not knowing what to make of its false sentimentality . the acting is equally uneven . other than looks , neither actor brings anything to the part . although pfeiffer gives one of the most insubstantial pieces of acting in her career , gallagher's acting is not much meatier . the good news is that the strong supporting cast , who are given all the comedic lines , almost saves the film . just because gillian has become an apparition appearing only to david is no reason to cancel the festivities . david is taken aback and tells paul , " don't you think it is a little insensitive fixing me up on her birthday ? " soon the seriousness passes for a bit , and we are into the fun silliness of gillian's day . these scenes are off the wall and very funny , but the laughter is all guarded because the audience knows that this film will switch without warning to its somber core . although thankfully not very often , pfeiffer does show up in some scenes . i am not making this up . in fact , i don't think i am not even capable of making up such drivel . as i said earlier , only the comedy works . there is one exception . this subplot appears to be nothing more substantial than the comedy about sandcastles , but in one intelligently written scene , the flirting reaches a surprising conclusion . this is quite an insightful scene , and one that i had not expected to see in such a trivial picture . most impressive is that once it starts , it builds to an unexpected ending . reliable james horner comes through with some excellent music . it has all of the genuine romantic and dreamy aspects that the picture itself lacks . similarly , tim suhrstedt's cinematography has a wonderful and beautiful surreal feel . the best scenes are the nighttime ones of luminescent blues . ghost is a much better picture that covers the same ground . i am at a loss to explain why gillian was made . is the availability of good looking leads suffice motivation to make a film ? it is now rated pg-13 , but reportedly they made last minute adjustments to get an r rating removed . there is no sex , nudity , or violence . the show includes a meaningless scene where david uses the f word several time and argues about the number of times he has used it . the picture would have been stronger without the scene and would have allowed younger kids to see it . even so , my guess is that the show would be fine for most kids over say nine . you can make the decision knowing the f words are there . i laughed a lot , but was put off by the pseudo-serious parts so i can't quite bring myself to recommend it . i give it * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	producers : george faber and charles patterson . director : roger michell . mpaa rating : unrated ( could be r for profanity , violence and adult themes ) running time : 101 minutes . it's a small bit of business , only one of many in the film , but it shows how interested director roger michell and screenwriter anne devlin ( working from mary costello's autobiographical novel ) are with establishing character . over the course of the film , bernie becomes a bona fide political celebrity , though not a much-beloved one . what's extraordinary about bernie is that she's so un-extraordinary . she's simply a house-proud mother concerned more with keeping her kids alive than making a statement . this simple focus on a simple but very determined woman helps titanic town avoid the most common pitfall of films set against a political struggle : it never stops to lecture about the futility of war or to make any other grandiose statement about the events that form its backdrop . walters delivers a witty , thoroughly engaging performance as bernie , who stumbles into a position as spokesperson by sheer accident . bernie is such a solid center of the film that its sub-plots often feel fairly thin by comparison . nothing else in the film is ever quite as compelling . that one story is still compelling enough to keep titanic town moving briskly , and to offer a vivid insight into the chaos of 1970s belfast . films about big issues need those small moments to keep them human . titanic town is never the monolith its title might suggest . tragedy sometimes appears in a form less like a sinking ship than like an unmade bed . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	the remarkably thin plot works primarily due to auteuil's disarming charm . what does the company manufacture ? amazingly , the movie uses the company's product for only two big jokes . the film is in french with english subtitles . it is rated r for a scene of sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	mankiewicz does a nice job of creating the dark noir mood . the film is laden with comedy , excellent performances , plenty of suspense , plus a voice-over by john ireland , and it manages to keep the pot boiling with a quintessential amnesiac story . 
0	continuing in the bad tradition of stretching animated television shows into full-length movies , doug's 1st movie is the latest incarnation . with the vast number of mediocre kids' television series still left to be " adapted " for the big screen , the mind boggles at what our kids will probably be offered at the theaters in the next few years . although there are marvelous films like a bug's life and the prince of egypt , most of what the studios send to the theaters these days is the cinematic equivalent of elevator music -- terminally bland but with just enough familiar parts to keep you from falling asleep . although doug's real life has its limitations , he has a vivid dream life . what that quote means , i have no idea , but we do see him dressed as such . the dance turns out to be merely a subplot . herman , looking a like stuffed , powder blue version of barney , is a creature more likely to hug you to death than scare you . there are a few , a very few , bits of nice humor in the story . another has the superhero version of doug make a big monster regurgitate by showing him a " mushy teen " television series . ( showing him this movie might provoke a similar reaction . ) the colorful animation has little detail in the drawings , making it look like something that was quick and easy to slap together , but the credits , which run almost as long as the movie itself , suggest otherwise . with a thin story as flat as the animation , one can only hope that doug's 1st movie will be his last . doug's 1st movie runs 1 : 15 . it is rated g and has nothing objectionable for any age . my son jeffrey , almost 10 , said he gave the movie * * * because he likes the television series . he liked the way the movie made him wonder what was going to happen next . his buddy nickolas , almost 10 , said he hadn't seen the show and didn't care much for the movie or doug . he gave it * * . 
1	it is mixed messages like that from ford that have always made me wary of him , and despite how layered in complexity the plot and character development this western is and how tight frank nugent's rich script is in pointing out traditional army customs for those who gave their lives in defending america's frontiers--it is still a film that loves war and finds killing to be necessary . these social rituals seem to be just as important as learning how to shoot a rifle . the film also has a half-baked romance that was not only dull , but made the film feel longer than it should have . as in all ford westerns , there are his stock characters and scenes devoted to comic humor about the irish being heavy drinkers and gallant fighters . 
0	throughout the history of cinema , hollywood has brought together screen pairings whose natural chemistry and camaraderie have caused instant acceptance by audiences . abbott and costello . martin and lewis . matthau and lemon . woody and wesley . . . personally , i'm not buying . it's probably not fair to blame the two leads entirely for the utter failure of money train . while neither gives a performance that pundits are going to rave about at oscar time , none of the above duos could have done much better with the drivel that passes for doug richardson and david loughrey's script . and , as if that isn't bad enough , joseph ruben directs this in the most stultified , poorly-paced manner possible . call it " how to turn an action film into a sominex alternative . " i went into money train hoping for an action flick that wouldn't require much thought . what i got instead was a movie into which no thought had been invested . as for the action--well , it's there , provided you're willing to sit through nearly ninety minutes of insipid romance and routine sibling rivalry . the bulk of this film isn't clever , charming , original , dramatically successful , or humorous . laughable , yes , but not humorous . there isn't even any nudity to liven up proceedings . money train has one of those plots where it's fun to guess what's coming next , because you'll always be right . if you aren't , you haven't seen many movies . most of that sympathy goes away , however , as we see what a real jerk charlie is . the best way to watch money train , if you must watch it , is to bring a bunch of friends to a late showing ( when there's no one else in the theater ) , then ridicule the movie mystery science theater 3000- style . otherwise , the experience will be right up there with listening to someone scrape their fingernails across a chalkboard for an hour and a half . take your pick which is which . 
2	this is a film where the heroine could say with deep conviction that " i've seen bodies shining like stars , " and we believe her without laughing at her . it's an unusual and fascinatingly compelling fairy tale type of drama , steeped in feeling and intellect and romance . " kissed " is based on the original story by barbara gowdy " we so seldom look on love , " and directed with economy in her first feature by canadian lynne stopkewich . what makes this film standout , is that the subject matter is necrophilia . this is never followed up . but for sandra the dead bodies are a means of transcendence . . . the reason it's a detriment , is because her story is more dynamic and compelling than his . one of the really amazing things about ths film is that it's all believable . it's handled in a romantic and even comical way , allowing us to see the characters for what they are instead of sensationalizing their fetishes . there were three very good performances : jay brazeau sets a sobering tone for the story to be grounded in reality , no matter how far-fetched it may seem . peter outerbridge brings a sensitivity and restlessness to his role , as someone whose curiosity is so great that he's willing to try something that is ghoulish . but the film belongs to molly parker's absorbing translation of her role , as an ordinary person who is compelled to do what she feels most pressing inside her . the film comes with voice-overs from molly , in her quiet , gentle voice , and the photography at times becomes glowing in a heavenly whiteness or darkly pressing in a sobering blue shade . the film always felt dreamlike , like it was a fairy tale without a moral lesson to it . the film's only fault is in how slight the story is and how it failed to go beyond the shocking taboo point of its " crossing over " theme and really explore that untested subject matter in more depth . but the film is still a special one because of the freshness of its ideas , the originality of the film's theme , and the way it was so artfully filmed . 
1	whereas steven spielberg's original jurassic park filled viewers with awe over the grandeur of nature , his sequel , the lost world : jurassic park , achieves 134 minutes of tedium . after a long and boring introduction , the movie slips into its rhythm of attack , lull , attack . the mean time between dinosaur attacks gets shorter and shorter until we have one every other minute . those subscribing to the more-is-always-better philosophy may enjoy spielberg's overkill , but most viewers will probably find the film more tiring than scary . the two films look different as well . the original had gorgeous cinematography by dean cundey . the sequel , as filmed by janusz kaminski , is strikingly ugly . every scene looks flat and dirty as if the camera lens had gotten too much jungle grime on it . the strikingly bad camerawork is a shame since the best part of the film , and the only reason to see it , are the impressive special effects . the result is even more realistic images than last time . this can best be seen when the humans interact close-up with the dinosaurs in the same frame . moore brings nothing to her underwritten role , and goldblum plays a type of character he has done many times before , but he seems to have lost interest . eighty percent female you see . giving him a yeah-right look , malcolm retorts , " no , you're making all new ones . " i'll discuss more of these problems later . " let's get this moveable feast underway . " as realistic as the dinosaurs are , the attacks come so often that i never found them scary . the choreography of this , and only this , scene is worthy of a hitchcock . now , about the film's absurd aspects . let me give just a few . would you take an injured t-rex baby back to your trailer knowing full well that his parents will smell his scent and hear his cries ? if you were camping out among carnivorous dinosaurs , would you stay at the edge of the camp listening to loud music on your headphones , oblivious to the sounds of attacking dinos ? would you wander off from the others just to go to the bathroom ? would you sleep with a light on in your tent if you knew that hungry t-rexs are roaming nearby ? at some point in this story you will crack . the sum total of its stupidity will overwhelm you , and you will burst out in laughter . not too much . he gets his flash camera and takes a picture . " this is going to be bad . " it is rated pg-13 for dinosaur violence with people eaten alive and body parts strewn everywhere . the movie is fine for teenagers , but kids under 13 will need strong stomachs . as a rule of thumb , i'd say if they can handle jurassic park with no problems , they would be okay for the sequel , but if the original troubles them at all , pass on its sequel . i cannot recommend this mess and give it just barely * * for the great special effects and for postlethwaite's performance . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : june 7 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	screenplay : peter berg . director : peter berg . mpaa rating : r ( violence , profanity , nudity , sexual situations , drug use , adult themes ) running time : 101 minutes . the film's title offers too easy and convenient a bon mot . expect cadres of critics to be trotting out innumerable variations on " very bad things _is_ one of them , " though it's both a cheap analysis and an inaccurate one . very bad things isn't a very bad movie . it's a very good idea approached from entirely the wrong perspective . beneath the macabre , over-the-top situations surrounding the deaths in very bad things is a savage satire of stereotypical gender responses to impending marriage . to laura , it's all just one more logistical glitch to be overcome , with diaz turning in a frighteningly funny vision of a woman whose wedding _will not_ be spoiled by anything . diaz nails the proper tone so completely ( particularly in the film's final act ) that you may suddenly realize what's been so wrong with the rest of the film . while diaz plays laura entirely for absurd laughs , the male cast members range from one extreme to another . slater plays boyd as too sinister to be funny , stern and piven play the brothers berkow as too genuinely tormented to be funny , and favreau plays kyle as too dull to be funny . for much of very bad things , the script by peter berg ( better known from his role on " chicago hope " ) is simply a plot in motion , pulling the characters along with it . at times there's not even exaggerated humanity in the reactions of the characters , the kind that would have given a more humorous spin to more scenes . for a film that could have and should have been a dark comedy , very bad things is too much like the menacing morality play of shallow grave . that kind of tone is going to alienate a lot of viewers , particularly as the situations grow increasingly extreme and gruesome . though very bad things ends with a hilariously horrifying subversion of suburban domestic bliss , it doesn't given you enough reason to stick around for it . comedy can still work when it's caustic , but at some point a film-maker needs to understand that he has to keep an audience laughing at material this dark to keep them from walking away . very bad things is a great opportunity wasted , and that's the _real_ very bad thing . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	albino alligator , the directorial debut of 1996's best supporting oscar winner , kevin spacey , is a cagey , claustrophobic noir thriller highlighted by a few clever plot twists , some nicely-honed dialogue , and a half-dozen top-notch performances . many will doubtless compare this movie to quentin tarantino's reservoir dogs , but , while there are similarities in plot , intent , and style , albino alligator is a more intimate film . if not for the car chase that opens the movie and sets up everything that follows , this could easily be mistaken for the screen adaptation of a play . spacey's picture doesn't feature anything new or startling , but it's competently constructed , and , with the possible exception of a stale patch in the middle , keeps the tension at a consistently high level . built around a pyramidal series of coincidences , albino alligator is rich in irony and occasionally darkly humorous . the characters , who all start out as familiar types , are allowed to grow and develop in sometimes-unexpected directions . even the viewer who recognizes albino alligator's flaws is still likely to be intrigued and captivated by the increasingly-desperate proceedings . his injured brother , milo , advises restraint and humanity -- perhaps even to the point of giving up . nothing in this film is quite as inevitable as it first seems . every performance works , although some of the actors ( namely john spencer , viggo mortensen , and m . emmet walsh ) don't have much to do . dillon is excellent as the torn dova . william fichtner plays the sociopath with a mixture of unharnassed rage and oily charm . as the voice of reason , gary sinise gives his usual solid performance ( he's a much kinder , gentler villain here than in ransom ) . the standout among the hostages is faye dunaway , whose character runs through emotions from anger and contempt to horror and desperation . his technique for putting a reporter in her place is one of the film's best moments . the core of albino alligator is atmosphere and dialogue . the characters do a lot of talking , and , although few of their lines are memorable , almost all of what they say rings true . there are occasions , however , when the film's talkiness eats into the tension , especially towards the midpoint . albino alligator doesn't flow as smoothly as it might ; there are times when it surges forward , and other instances when it drags a little . in an era when tarantino-flavored crime thrillers are becoming more commonplace , albino alligator manages to distinguish itself . for the most part , christian forte's script is smart , even if the characters aren't , and spacey's direction is sure-handed . there's something darkly delightful about watching a movie like this , which , despite occasionally falling back on formulaic conventions , still manages to surprise its audience from time-to-time . 
1	screenplay : jack bernstein , tom shadyac & jim carrey . director : tom shadyac . as many individual elements as i might analyze with any given film , my gut reaction almost always comes down to one crucial issue : did the film do what it was trying to do ? if it was a thriller , did it keep me in suspense ? if it was a romance , did i respond emotionally ? and if it was a comedy , did i laugh ? of all the film types , comedy is perhaps the most difficult to analyze ; either it works , or it doesn't . which brings me to this confession : i laughed at ace ventura : pet detective . god help me , i laughed quite a bit . comedian jim carrey's unique persona won me over in spite of a great deal of stupidity and some sluggish pacing . vanity projects are a dime a dozen these days , but they all apply a very similar logic , namely that if you let the star do what he or she does best , and if that star's audience is large enough , you'll have a success . i'm not sure whether the latter condition is true of carrey , but it is true that he's allowed to do what he does best . it has been a long time since i've seen a physical comedian who looks as comfortable on screen as carrey . his elastic features recall early jerry lewis , while his spindly frame and geeky self- confidence show traces of pee-wee herman . when the comedy is purely physical , the laughs are really big . the opening sequence features ace disguised as a parcel deliveryman gleefully shattering the contents of his package to simulate a shipping mishap . ace ventura boasts some of the most amusing slapstick in recent years this side of the zucker-abrahams-zucker films . it's considerably more erratic in its success when it comes to verbal gags . in fact , ace ventura is almost self-congratulatory in its political incorrectness , using homophobia and sexism as punch lines . the film drags between visual set pieces , rescued only by carrey's goofy delivery . part of the problem is that screenwriters carrey , tom shadyac and jack bernstein frequently seem unclear as to when enough is enough . ace's trademark mocking cackle , borrowed from carrey's fire marshall bill character from " in living color , " is funny once but not three times . a more telling example involves the theme song from the crying game , used perfectly once but then used again so that it just seems derivative . finally , one piece of advice for filmmakers : if you must use dan marino for a cameo , please don't give him too many lines . an isotoner glove commercial is about all i can take . there would seem to be little point to commenting on the supporting players in ace ventura , since for all practical purposes they serve as scenery with sag cards . she has a fun , over-the-top part much like her role in fatal instinct , but wisely she avoids trying to steal scenes from carrey . it just wouldn't work . in ace ventura , jim carrey establishes himself as a first-rate screen clown , one i hope to see again . 
1	it stridently shows in its futuristic prediction what the united states might become like if the reactionary right-wing had their way . it is a polemic exercise between the left and the right , with no room for the middle point of view . though the director tries to present some of the establishments' arguments against these young dissenters to show that he is impartial , the weight of what is going down is so heavy , that even when the tribunal members make a plausible response , it still sounds vacuous given the current situation . they mostly say things like the protesters don't care about this country , that the vietnam war is a " just " war because it is aimed to stop the spread of communism , and that the protesters are trying to make a mockery of the american way of life . that the politician is nothing but a debater . while the pacifists' say that war is only just when it is entered into without any hatred in one's heart . the honorable thing to do at a crisis time like this , is be a criminal -- that at another time it might be to become a politician . the film had a gritty look to it and should bring back some of the worst confrontational memories of a time the country was divided in a very hostile way . what was missing from the film , was a sense that it could accomplish anything . but , maybe , that wasn't possible , especially looking at this film some thirty years later and realizing how there was no way to justify the war and the racism at the time . to add to that the fictional suspension of individual rights and a horror chamber like punishment park , makes this film seem like a futile diatribe that lost its prospective of what its aim was . yet , if the film's polemics disturbs , but fails to entertain as a film , it still had some bite in it , and its non-professional cast made this an unusual film , one worth watching for all the intensity it displayed despite its inability to alter any one's mind from their current views . it is , simply , preaching to the choir . 
0	mindless adventure takes hold , and the story becomes implausible and unimportant . an effort was made to provide a crisp dialogue , as mamet , was supposedly the richard weisz , who is mentioned in the credits as the story writer . it was wise of mamet for not displaying his own name . yet there is a sprinkling of good lines and humor , here and there , enough to make the film mildly diverting , if you are into watching this film for something else besides the action scenes . but despite some attempts to make this a deeper than usual actioner , frankenheimer's film is just your typical actioner . what gives it a lift and a sense of being something more than the thin story it really is , is the beautiful camera work and moody colors of the cinematography ; and , the superb acting by a very capable cast . without de niro's presence this film would have been less than a run-of-the-mill action film , despite its excellent cinematography . i also found that pryce and skarsgard stood out in their villain roles . and katrina witt was a welcome relief from all the hard action scenes . it didn't make sense ; but , then again , nothing really made sense in this film . i admired his manchurian candidate ( 62 ) and french connection 11 ( 75 ) for the raw power of their stories and their keen insights into his characters' behavior . unfortunately , this film is not of the same caliber . it fails to make us think that what is taking place is anything but absurd ; and , that is the shame of it . this once great filmmaker , in his prime , always seemed to provide us with both thoughtful and suspenseful films that had some depth to them ; while this film , is at best , only mildly diverting . 
1	a good joel mccrea flick . it is suspenseful , entertaining , fast-paced , and tautly scripted by eric ambler from a novel by geoffrey household . 
2	it's frequently the small details that make the difference between a good picture and an outstanding one . the adults in the film , and to lesser extent the teenagers , are as cold to each other as ice , and each will be broken in many ways before their melancholy story ends . " i have a husband . i don't have a need for another one . " carol oditz's costumes and michael bigger's make-up gives the early 70s an accurate but exceedingly ugly look . never have long lapels and gaudy leisure suits looked worse . again , metaphors abound . and i do mean experiment . all of the performances are tour de force , but incredibly depressing . the show offers only a few possibly redemptive scenes . the film's long ending sequence makes the picture . as its title suggests , it includes an ice storm . never has sex seemed more dismal that in this sad game of spouse-swapping . but the ice storm is never a comedy , not even a black comedy . it is a deadly serious and morose morality tale and the slowest and the darkest movie yet from ang lee . it is a devastating film that will almost certainly leave you emotionally drained . it is rated r for drugs , sex and mature themes . the film would be fine for older and mature teenagers . i strongly recommend the picture to you and give it * * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	lazenby makes the mistake of trying to imitate connery rather than giving his own interpretation to the role , and as we all know , imitations just make us yearn for the genuine article . lazenby , an exceedingly plain looking actor devoid of much personality , lacks connery's handsome face as well as his suave demeanor . he went on to appear in the television soap opera " general hospital " and in many minor films . but , thankfully , he never again attempted the travesty of acting the bond role . ( bond films titillate with hints of nudity and sex while showing neither . the line pokes fun at the switch but also serves to remind us that our old favorite is gone . ( connery will be back two more times as james bond , something we didn't know or even suspect when this movie first played . ) she's so much smarter than lazenby than she seems out of place . even without make-up or fancy clothes her natural beauty dominated the room like a thick perfume . ) when lazenby , as bond , quits in a huff early on in the film , one feels like applauding in the vain hope that connery will return forthwith -- the applause being motivated as much by wanting to dispose of lazenby and his lackluster performance as by getting our old hero back . the story's plot reeks of triviality . spectre's #1 , played this time without much energy by telly savalas rather than the much better donald pleasence , runs an exclusive allergy institute high atop a private , snow-covered mountain . richard maibaum's script doesn't tell us much about spectre's plans until the last third of the movie . that is , unless spectre gets a huge payoff . we're still waiting , however , for thunderball-style personal jetpacks to be available at sharper image . the show has several technical problems . " i hope i can live up to your high standards , " bond says at one point . well , lazenby couldn't and didn't . it is rated pg for violence and sexual innuendo and would be fine for kids around nine and up . my son jeffrey , almost 9 , liked this movie but still likes thunderball the best . he did not like lazenby at all , and he thought the new actor playing spectre's #1 was not creepy enough . he has seen the first 6 bond films now , and he likes this one least of all . 
2	here jaoui takes on the directing duties as well . the charm in this plot less film is that everyone presented is so much different in lifestyle and yet with all their flaws and differences , they all have something going for them that might be appealing to someone else . the story allows us to see each of their points of view clearly as their character is fully developed ; it is so smartly and subtly done without patting itself on the back , that it becomes a pleasure to watch such an intelligent presentation on the problems of love and of one developing taste . and , isn't life all about developing taste and evolving ! the more limited one is , the more limited one's friendships and love will be ! the performers all do a marvelous job of getting this across and they make the film a joy to see . it's thankfully a film that has a life of its own and shuns any formulaic way of resolving this tale , which should only disappoint zombie viewers of familiar hollywood love stories . 
1	starring cary grant as an angel sent to earth to aid a struggling cleric , the film , which combines elements of charles dickens' a christmas carol and frank capra's it's a wonderful life , is a typical , feel-good , christmas offering . it's a lighthearted fantasy that works well enough on its own terms , but , by today's standards , seems rather dated . nearly fifty years after the bishop's wife first reached theater screens , director penny marshall has decided to revamp the story and make a new movie . and , with disney behind the production , you can be sure that the merchandising ( most notably the soundtrack ) will threaten to dwarf the in-theater experience . marshall is probably the ideal film maker to attempt this kind of remake . after all , her directorial trademark is the happy ending . even her best films ( big and a league of their own ) have moments of almost- sickening sweetness . the preacher's wife milks that quality for all it's worth . those looking for something truly uplifting will find more than they could possibly want in this movie . creatively , however , it's on shaky ground . beneath the warm sentiments and likable personalities , the preacher's wife is rather trite . i think i would probably react the same way if someone produced a passable remake of it's a wonderful life . i enjoy that film immensely , but my affinity for it results largely from a nostalgia for the period during which it was made and in which it transpires . a modernized version of capra's movie would lack that crucial quality , and , consequently , the viewing experience would suffer . much the same can be said about the preacher's wife . it has better production values than its predecessor , but the intangibles aren't the same . an element of the magic is missing . in her defense , her acting skills have improved , but she's still out of her depth in the company of performers like washington and vance . she does a lot of singing in this movie -- enough , in fact , that it could almost qualify as a musical -- but those are the only scenes when her natural charisma and energy translate to the screen . she's a delightful presence , and her delivery of several biting one-liners almost manages to give the preacher's wife the semblance of an edge . the uplifting moral here is that miracles can happen for those who believe . these are themes common to almost every beloved holiday classic . so , as a christmas film , the preacher's wife has all the right sentiments , and presses the expected buttons . on the other hand ( call me a scrooge if you will ) , i'm not sure i'd want to see this movie at any other time of the year . if not for the pervasive spirit of the season , something like this could easily send me into sugar shock . it's a little too nice and happy . 
2	starring : charlton heston , sofia loren , john fraser , genevieve page , herbert lom director : anthony mann producer : samuel bronston screenplay : frederic m . frank and philip yordan music : miklos rozsa re-released by miramax films and martin scorsese " el cid is one of the greatest epic films ever made . lavish praise from martin scorsese , one of the forces behind the restoration and re-release of el cid . pardon me if i am not wholly in agreement with him . el cid is definitely not a good source for a factual biography ( the identity of diaz' wife and the premise of the finale are a few of the more obvious occasions when the truth is completely ignored ) . using similar methods and equal care to that which was given to lawrence of arabia , the restoration of el cid is an impressive undertaking . the sound quality on this new print is flawless and , for the most part , the picture is better than one would expect from a thirty-two year old film . there are several frames that are far from mint condition , but the overall effect is impressive , and the colors are never washed-out . the battle scenes of el cid are breathtaking , and well worth the effort of seeing on a large screen . video viewing of the climactic struggle would greatly diminish the impact , and it is in this context that it's possible to understand scorsese's quote . this is definitely a film meant for theaters . the television screen will serve only to limit the high points and magnify the numerous , often-glaring weaknesses . instead of el cid seeming like an epic , it could come off looking rather stupid . that's because beyond the spectacle and pageantry , el cid's virtues are limited . the costumes and set design are as impressive as the magnificent backdrops against which the turbulent struggles of the armies occur , and the effort necessary to orchestrate the realistic clash of thousands of swords is mind-boggling , but while these things add a great deal to the film , they cannot entirely cover up its shortcomings . acting is by far the biggest problem . while both charlton heston and sofia loren have imposing screen personalities , neither is capable of projecting real emotion or drawing us into a rapport with the characters . simply put , heston and loren are wooden , and there are only a few occasions on which they manage to make diaz or chimene real . the chemistry between them is flat , conveying little , if any , passion . " smouldering " is not a word anyone would use to describe this couple . the plot is high melodrama with few surprises . el cid turns far more often to the ridiculous than the sublime , and the last scenes contain an element that is downright silly . perhaps if the movie didn't take itself so seriously , there wouldn't be as many opportunities for unintentional laughter , but el cid is about as self-important as a motion picture can be . it is an epic , after all , but in case we've forgotten , there's always the needlessly florid dialogue and stentorian score to remind us . obviously , they don't make movies like this any more , and that's both good and bad . while there's a lot in this film that modern pictures don't need to harken back to , it would be nice to see some of the flair . when recalling great battles in recent films , only a few come to mind ( last of the mohicans and glory , for example ) , none of which have the scope or sheer power of what anthony mann achieved in el cid . so , while i'm personally not ready to anoint el cid as the timeless epic classic that it has become , i'll not pepper it with arrows of disdain , either . this is a grand movie with tremendous aspirations that are not always realized . nevertheless , it's an entertaining , if not transcendental way to spend three-plus hours . 
0	attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone . should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic . the film will work just as well as a silent movie . chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing . first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth . there isn't one of these characters worth caring about . the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . " and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say . structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars . she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story . the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday . as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds . the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie . it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
1	somehow this quirky , egocentric , fantasy black-and-white film about a british filmmaker learning to dance the tango from a master , works in an obscure way by getting us hooked on what's going on . it works so well because the dancing was so natural and magnificently performed , even if the wistful romantic story never caught my imagination and the philosophizing about her being a jew seemed more diverting than engrossing ( in real-life she's not jewish but an avowed atheist who was only influenced by her jewish neighbors and their culture ) . the 48-year-old sally potter ( she plays herself ) , while filming in paris a technicolor thriller ( it seemed like dreck and is probably some kind of personal statement potter is making about hollywood films ) about a legless fashion designer in a wheelchair murdering models dressed in brightly colored costumes . " i've always wanted to be in films , " says the thirtysomething pablo . it sounds like a trade-off in self-indulgences , and all i can say , is why not ! when sally dances the tango in the film , that's really her and not a double . and if she can dance the part , why not play the part ! for whatever arcane reason ( or most likely no reason at all ) , the story has twelve dance lessons which come to divide the film into chapters . she returns to paris after being disappointed that her hollywood backers complained that it would be better for the box office if the film was to be in english instead of french and that she should cast a different villain because it would be difficult to cast a legless person . she shoots back , " you danced as a soloist -- like a stranger -- and i lost you . " somehow i couldn't be convinced of their romance , in fact , i never cared about it . it seemed empty , and to the bargain she's no beauty . but . . . ah ! those dancing scenes were tremendous , along with the penetrating cinematography of the great robby m ? ller , giving the film such a stunning look . the film managed to look good and even though pablo and sally are no great shakes as actors , and their stiff romance was more pitiful than meaningful , the film had a bizarre strain to it , of this very uptight sally learning how to loosen up and the sly pablo jumping around like a fox at a hunt . it seemed to be a mix of reality and script , but hard to tell which was which . when they weren't dancing or figuring out what kind of arrangement they were going to have , such as if their dancing partnership would include any funny business , they discussed what it is like being a jew . i couldn't quite warm up to this debate about art . the film is short on plot , short on acting , short on getting me involved in the romance , but most of the film had potter and veron dancing and that had me jumping with joy , even believing that there was something spiritual to the tango , a dance which is a mixture of cuban and european styles , created by the lower-classes and elevated to the status of the ballroom , a dance created in this century , that maybe is even akin to the rapturous eastern european klezmer music . this is an inspiring dance film that covers some ground in exploring what the tango is and how that dance reflect's one's life and suffering , and to understand that is to begin to understand what the tango is about and what this film was trying to get at . 
0	stuart bliss has noticed that the birds are flying in the wrong direction , which is just one of many signs he has been picking up lately . is this all a paranoid delusion , or is he onto something big ? stuart bliss , by first-time director neil grieve , is a black comedy with the emphasis on the darkness . although it has sporadic touches of humor to temper the descent into madness , the monotonic story written by the director and the movie's star , michael zelniker , takes a relentless approach . never sympathetic or complex , the story's protagonist , stuart bliss ( zelniker ) , is a played as a cipher . with the vacant stare of a zombie , stuart movies through the picture like an automaton . the story itself holds so much promise that audiences will likely stay with it even though its slow pacing takes what would have been a fascinating short film and transforms it into a full-length , but soporific , movie . the story opens well with some good , subtle humor . with actors playing multiple roles , the movie tries to confuse the audience in much the same way that stuart is befuddled . the problem is that after a while the audience simply doesn't care any more . why the director created a stick figure lead is the movie's real mystery . a little variety in the acting , some real emotion , and a few laughs would have helped enormously . it is not rated but might be pg-13 for adult themes and would be fine for any teenager . the movie is in the process of getting a distributor and thus does not yet have a release schedule . 
2	screenplay : kevin jarre . after a few decades when westerns were about as easy to find as jimmy hoffa , it seems like you can't sneeze at the movies these days without hitting a horse . tombstone is the name , ma'am , and surprisingly lively entertainment is the game . while no great piece of art , tombstone is a real old-fashioned shoot-em-up , energetically staged and acted and featuring a particularly memorable performance from val kilmer . but even that battle is not the end , as tombstone becomes the nexus of a blood feud which won't end until one side or the other is completely dead . it's action that tombstone is about first and foremost , and it delivers big time . there are few slow stretches , and they usually build towards something . the big shootout at the ok corral might be the least effective of the action pieces ; it's edited in a fairly confusing fashion which may accent the chaos of the situation but doesn't always make it clear who's shooting whom . otherwise the action is extremely well-choreographed , backed up by a bruce broughton score a bit too reminiscent of his work on silverado . fortunately , the action is where the comparisons to rambo end . tombstone is well-acted by its ensemble cast , in spite of the most distracting ( if authentic ) facial hair this side of gettysburg . kurt russell , never the most versatile of leading men , does bring an intense and reluctant heroism to wyatt . sam elliott and bill paxton are a bit more wooden in less-developed roles , but for the stoic and civic-minded earps it's not a distraction . sure , his lines are campy and anachronistic , but they are also quite funny . he drawls out his quips with a sly confidence , and turns in probably his best all-around performance yet . delaney is lovely , but her character is just a distraction ( as , unfortunately , are all of the female characters in tombstone ) , never adding anything in particular to the story or to wyatt's character . their scenes together seem simply to be a nod to the conventional wisdom that you need a love story to get women into the theater . while it's spending time wandering through the flowers , tombstone is nothing special , but when it sticks to its guns it generally finds its target . 
2	so men , what could you do if you could read women's minds ? and women , wouldn't it be wonderful if your guy knew what you really wanted rather than what he incorrectly thought you wanted ? in what women want , director nancy meyers , working from a stellar script by josh goldsmith and cathy yuspa , creates the perfect christmas gift for holiday viewers . as a comedy , it is side-splittingly funny with laughs so big that you'll have to see it again to hear all of the lines . as a love story , it is infectiously romantic , with great songs ( " i've got you under my skin " ) and some old-fashioned " making out " with wonderful kissing . and as a touching drama , it has tender , poignant moments that are completely honest . wrapped by cinematographer dean cundey with lush colors , the gift is so carefully conceived and executed that we almost feel compelled to send paramount pictures a thank you card . with sweetly humorous displays of physical comedy in this cross-dressing scene , gibson reels in any audience members not yet under his spell . our audience went wild during this sequence , which turned out to be but one of many amazing scenes . sure enough , rule is exactly what he does . hunt's performance , while not quite at gibson's level , is extremely likeable . the great chemistry between them is one of the show's many delights . gibson turns the charm on the audience as well . with or without the ability to read women's minds , i predict that most women will leave the theater totally in love with gibson after this performance . to be fair , many already are . comedies aren't normally good at character development . romantic comedies are better but they usually only flesh out the two leads . since the writers in what women want are able to have every minor characters share their innermost thoughts with us , we get to know and care about characters who have only minuscule screen time . one of the best of many small subplots concerns the aforementioned messenger . we sympathize with her plight , even if she has only a few lines . the writers milk them for the emotional equivalent of heavy cream . the film goes down as smoothly as a glass of christmas eggnog . the only complaint possible is that it is such a heart-warming story that you don't want it to stop . but stop it does with an ending as satisfying as the rest of the picture . this is a movie in which it's easy to fall in love . what women want runs 2 : 06 but feels a half-hour shorter . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content and language and would be fine for teenagers . 
1	a depiction of hell , resulting in a messy , sweeping political picture set in 1995 , where all the action takes place on a 12 degree winter night in belgrade , showing a breakdown in 'law and order . ' it was brutal to watch , more intense and more in your face than more recent films on serbia , one that had no subtlety or artistic edge , as the gruesome little scenes ran together in a heavy-handed manner and no voice of reason emerged , or no one to sympathize could be found , except for the all too obvious loss of overall humanity that was pictured . there isn't , unfortunately , one thing to take away from this film that could help you understand the situation better , except to truly see the hopelessness of the situation , and one could have gotten that from reading the newspapers . it's the kind of film that might have a greater impact in the homeland ( which it did ) than throughout the world , as it gives the people of belgrade a chance to look in the mirror and see what they look like to the rest of the world . this is something that could happen in the states , but not likely to this extreme because more than likely the police would have resolved it . probably the most violent sketch , in a film that was a total gross-out ( and i couldn't argue if you chose another scene as more sadistic ) , is the one between two longtime friends sparring at a gym . this serves as a perfect metaphor for what the director is saying about the current thugs running the country . the film had a raw power to it which cannot be denied , but that power was also the film's main fault , as everything about it was just too obvious and too bleak , it couldn't stop showing a country that seemed to have lost every ounce of its humanity , making every character out to be either a loser or a sadist -- probably not unlike president milosevic and his constituents . the film's theme is simply taken from a quote by one of its characters : " this is a goddamned lousy country ; why would anyone want to come back ? '' that seems to be true from what i have seen , but the question for me , is why would anyone want to see this film ? and , i think the answer is , that in all the brutality shown , it is hard to deny that there is a truth that the film shows . the horrors of that country seem to be an everyday thing , and after seeing this film , one can only feel dazed and revolted by what is going on . but this is not an entertaining film ( i don't consider the film's gallows humor to be entertaining ) and it is not for those who like their war films with good guys they can identify with . . . it's a message film , saying these kind of horrors happened many times in history before and they will continue to happen if we forget history . i have no problem that the film wasn't entertaining , my problem with the film was that it wasn't informative about the human condition in a way that wasn't so obvious and in a way that could involve the viewer more with its characters . 
2	" i always thought it would be better to be a fake somebody than a real nobody , " tom ripley ( matt damon ) says in his most revealing line of the hitchcockean tale , the talented mr . set in 1958 , the movie's lush color palate makes it look like it was filmed back then . john seale's inviting cinematography gives the picture a travelogue gloss . but with creepy music reminiscent of an old thriller and with the sinister events of the story , you may have second thoughts about your initial inclination to leave the theater to book your seat on the next flight out . all of the acting is superb , but it is damon's oscar quality work that stands out the most . truer words were never spoken . as marge explains , his attention is like the sun . when it's on you , you feel warm and happy , and , when it isn't , you're cold . in a wonderfully nuanced performance , damon reveals much while seeming to reveal little about tom . some of the twists in the plot are obvious but many aren't . the surprises are delicately presented with subtlety being the story's trademark . tom doesn't plan most of his nefarious activities , and the movie has that same easy naturalness as if the story just unfolds organically rather than being tightly scripted . " i don't care for bs , " he says coldly . " i don't care to speak it . i don't care to hear it . " certainly tom doesn't see anything wrong with his actions . and the subversive show has us rooting for him all along the way . the talented mr . ripley may be an odd and disquieting choice for a holiday release , but it is nevertheless a fascinating one . the talented mr . it is rated r for violence , language and brief male full-frontal nudity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
1	it's set on the lower east side of manhattan , with its abandoned buildings and shabby tenements , which gives it the look of a war-torn city . she's as loopy as one can be . jarmusch is one of america's most talented independent directors , who continues to make original films . this is his humble beginning in films , and the result is a well-crafted technical accomplishment with flashes showing of his great ability to tell a story . permanent vacation is not for the casual filmgoer , but for one who can appreciate an independent way of looking at film . 
1	the 81-year-old boris karloff's last completed feature film , could have and should have been better , as it suffers from a weakly-crafted script despite having great performances from the three prominent horror screen favorites who are in it- that would be karloff as professor marshe , christopher lee as morley , and barbara steele as lavinia . though , it is still worth seeing because of its star attractions and its innovative psychedelic offerings to the horror genre . bob scoffs at the witch story and the idea of ghosts being around , saying he knows little about such things . but the professor replies in his noted serious karloff movie tone , " when the time comes , your skepticism might be only a fragile shield . " bob's conversations with the wheel-chaired bound professor are terse but highlight the film , as they are delivered with proper horror film affect . the film's not real frightening because there is a flatness to it ; but , it has its entertaining moments , and is a must see for karloff fans . 
0	right , that was a gimme . it seems that deniro has played an inordinate number of nut cases , but each one has been a distinct creation . it also seems less than coincidental that all of the aforementioned roles -- in taxi driver , cape fear and the king of comedy , respectively -- were directed by martin scorsese . scorsese knows deniro well enough , and has enough talent , to refuse to let him lapse into self-parody . the fan is an piece of hack work in which everyone involved flounders in a pointless story made even more intolerable by scott's oppressive atmospheric theatrics . that action does end up connecting the two men , a connection which doesn't make rayburn too thrilled about getting up close and personal with his fans . this is the tony scott who has ingested the simpson/bruckheimer visual motif to such an extent that he seems medically dependent on the kind of lighting which makes everyone in the film look like george hamilton ; this is the tony scott whom one suspects might never have been able to set up a shot he liked if blinds had not been invented . scott is a director who generally takes a script , actors and solid production values and grinds them into hamburger to be smothered in slow motion and a spirit-crushing soundtrack . whatever substance their might have been in the story of the fan is rendered toxic by contact with scott's " vision . " this is an ugly , ugly film . there is no great challenge involved in figuring out what the psychological underpinnings of this story were supposed to be , and that they might actually have made a decent film in some alternate reality . bobby rayburn is sane , but screenwriter phoef sutton fumbles any development in his character . the arrogant but superstitious superstar has a life which parallels gil's in ways so obvious that you can feel the elbow in your ribs -- a divorce , a young son , a perfectionist streak driven by their fathers , etc . -- but beyond those bits of trivia there is nothing to him . wesley snipes looks leaden most of the time , trying to find some kind of emotional core which just isn't there , and scott's direction steadfastly refuses to allow him the faintest hope of doing so . snipes is in trouble from the start with a character who makes no sense , but at least you might hope for some creative lunacy from deniro . sadly , what emerges instead is a performance which slaps together pieces of his superior work for scorsese . it's depressing to see deniro doing his own impression of himself . the fan is the kind of film which makes me angry enough to point out idiotic inconsistencies like overhead shots of candlestick ( now 3-com ) park which obviously were taken at 49er games , but the fact is that i don't need to . it is a film lacking a single character with whom to identify , without a single shot which doesn't remind you that its director cares more about the filter he has chosen than he does about his characters . that's right , tony scott . . . i'm 
1	it stars albert finney in another of his wonderful performances . he makes you feel his character's joy and his pain . unlike his excellent role last year in the browning version , this time we find him as basically a happy and joyful character albeit one with an underlying sadness whereas in the other show he played a sad person who repressed any feeling of contentment . the bus in this movie is like none you have ever seen before . it is almost reminiscent of the magic school bus kid's tv show on pbs . they have great fun doing this--most especially finney . watch how much fun he is having . it may make you want to spring into a character in the next dull meeting you are at and start quoting lines from oscar wilde . the plot is predictable , but who cares . you really have fun watching all of the regulars on the bus and soon you begin to feel you are one of them . there is a key part of the rest of the movie that all of the reviews i have seen have talked about , but i will not give it away . you will be able to guess it early on probably . suffice it to say , that i think finney is quite convincing with all parts of the role . the grays and the steel blues of dublin in the early 60s are a bit melancholy but beautiful . as one who loves old buses , this show was a special treat . the colors in the cinematography were well chosen and quite evocative of the mood of the piece . this is not a mega movie . it is more like a little tone poem . for what it is , it is well done . although it is bittersweet , it is a feel good movie . i left the theater singing the happy song from the credits and feeling elated as if i now somehow was one of the regulars and had some part in soleme . the movie is carefully edited and runs 1 : 38 . it is rated r for a little nudity , a little violence and adult themes . older teenagers could see it with no problems . i recommend this show to you and give it * * 1/2 . although it is not popular with most critics ( lots of " who cares " and mild thumbs down ) , i was happy to find that one major critic ( peter stack of the sf chronicle ) did like it and even more than me in that he gave it his top rating . i think the movie is good , but it is not that good . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	from the wonderful director of the joy luck club and the more recent smoke , wayne wang's new film , chinese box , is part romance and part homage to hong kong . his intentions are good , but the delicate story , which he co-wrote , is never allowed to blossom . and the insubstantial script feels like it has " first draft " written all over it . full of the hustle and bustle of hong kong , the handsome cinematography by vilko filac suffers from excessive pixilization during the long video tape sequences that cut into an otherwise luscious picture . john's got a rare form of leukemia and is expected to die about the same time as the hand over - one of the movie's many metaphors . gong li , who was so radiantly beautiful in shanghai triad and so moving in one of my favorite films , to live , plays vivian . the story's best scene has vivian and john dancing close together at a new year's party . their tension is palpable as both are uncomfortable about their unrequited love . although cheung's acting is intriguing , her character serves only to confuse an already unfocused narrative . but the historical portion of the movie is given even shorter shrift than the love story . like john and vivian's love affair , the movie generally leaves you feeling unsatisfied . i would have liked to know them better . the theme of two people who love each other deeply and who want to have an affair but can't has promise , especially with such strong leads . it is rated r for language , brief nudity and some sexual content and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	this one is set in modern la and filled with pointless violence , and with nothing relevant to say about its dirty cop subject matter . it would have been just another entertaining film that was eye-catching , amusing , and filled with non-stop action but for the last fifteen minutes , when the film fell apart and came up with a very unsound ending and ruined any chance for it to be appreciated in an artistic sense--even for denzel washington's fine performance . the way it ended made no sense , as this smorgasbord in violence had gangs of blacks , mexicans , and even russians , interact with corrupt city law enforcers . for denzel , this is a chance for him to show off how he could be cast against type as the heavy and still be charismatic . if anything , this pic shows that he's up to being a baddie . he's also up to the physical nature of the role as he gives a muscular performance , and he is able to talk the street-talk with the best of them . it becomes apparent that alonzo doesn't follow the book , as he plays mind games with jake and plants the seeds that you either do things my way or it's back to hum-drum police work with no promotions in sight . it was just too much slime to take in for one day , as somewhere after the first half of the film the shock scenes simply wore off and the film lost any dramatic effect ; it just looked cartoonish . but the twists in plot kept coming , and it took us down a seedier and more improbable path . it seemed likely that jake would have gotten off this crooked job offer faster , if this film had wanted to achieve anything resembling reality . the aim was obviously not realism , but to take the story into its own interpretation of the corruption in the lapd which was recently in the news . but the film's major failure is to go anywhere with this material and say anything that was revealing . all the shootouts seemed glossy but the final one seemed totally out of place , of the russian mafia going into action . it left the film to be hung out to dry as just another forgettable exploitation film , even though it was well-acted . 
0	describing the story of super mario brothers is a difficult chore , considering how little intelligible plot there is . i suppose it's only natural to expect this , considering the source material for the movie . as we all know , arcade-style diversions are not known for strong , original storylines or well-developed characters . in that sense , this film is worthy of its inspiration . the fun of playing the video game is that you're involved--you control what the little figure on the screen does . with the movie , on the other hand , you're a bystander , sitting in a seat watching a bunch of actors run around getting absolutely nothing done and speaking dialogue that could have been written by a precocious five-year old . following an unnecessarily long opening sequence ( which is actually the best part of the movie ) , super mario brothers is ninety-odd minutes of pointless action sequences which serve little purpose other than to keep the motion picture faithful to the spirit of the game . with no genuine sense of danger , there's no excitement . some interesting casting choices were made . john leguizamo , on the other hand , is not good ; earnestness doesn't compensate for lack of ability . samantha mathis , who has shown her skill in films such as pump up the volume and this is my life , plays an appealing , if somewhat gawky , college-aged princess . dennis hopper is disappointing . his role as king koopa cries out for an over-the-top performance but , for some inexplicable reason , hopper plays him straight , creating a dull and uncharismatic villain . this guy is so boring that we find it difficult to root against him--that is , when we can unravel enough of the murky plot to figure out why we're not supposed to like him . admittedly , the visual effects are nice , but it's a poor movie these days that can't have that said about it . there isn't anything new or revolutionary here . back in 1979 , star trek : the motion picture proved that special effects alone , no matter how impressive , cannot sustain the interest of an audience . super mario brothers is all glitz and no substance , and makes for a pretty poor time at the movies . if you crave excitement and action , see cliffhanger . kids will probably love this film but , to be frank , most children aren't that discriminating ( apologies to the few who are ) . there's nothing in the film that's reprehensible ( although some may find the concept of a one-hundred-five-minute commercial for a game offensive in itself ) , but i find it hard to believe that many adults accompanying their youngsters will be entertained . in general , about the best recommendation i can come up with regarding this movie is to turn on the nintendo and play a game yourself . you'll have more fun , spend less money , and it will be over a whole lot faster . 
2	cast : george clooney , harvey keitel , quentin tarantino , juliette lewis , ernest lieu , salma hayek , fred williamson , cheech marin director : robert rodriguez producers : gianni nunnari and meir teper screenplay : quentin tarantino cinematography : guillermo navarro music : graeme revell u . s . distributor : dimension films it's great fun , but certainly not great art . from dusk till dawn , a special effects blood-and-gore extravaganza from director robert rodriguez , follows in the footsteps of such cult classics as sam raimi's evil dead series , thumbing its nose at conventional film expectations and gleefully embracing the campiness of the b-movie genre . with its palette of hideous monstrosities , decapitations , dismemberments , eviscerations , topless dancers , profane dialogue , and bare foot licking , this motion picture pushes the r-rating to the edge . yet the reason from dusk till dawn entertains is because it never takes itself seriously . the film is steeped in wit , parody , and offbeat humor . there aren't any characters here -- only caricatures . the movie has been designed as a burst of high energy , and that's exactly what it turns out to be . from dusk till dawn will appeal to only a small portion of the cinema-visiting population , but for those who enjoy this kind of tongue-and-cheek horror story , the film has a lot to offer . from dusk till dawn marks the most recent phase in the creative collaboration between rodriguez and quentin tarantino . for this film , not only is tarantino credited with the screenplay , but he has a significant on-screen role . although a terrible performer , he doesn't actually damage the movie , however , because acting ability has little merit here . for the most part , tarantino's dialogue here pales in comparison to what he wrote for reservoir dogs and pulp fiction . that said , however , there's still a snappy rhythm to the way the men , women , and undead of from dusk till dawn speak . the script is peppered with deadpan humor , from allusions to peter cushing's hammer horror battles against dracula to harvey keitel's bible quotations as he sets about taking out his demonic opponents . there are also numerous references , visual and otherwise , to previous work by tarantino and rodriguez . depending on your opinion of the two men , this can be seen as either clever or self- indulgent . the only one who really attempts any sort of real acting is keitel . everyone else is just out there kicking butt , taking their lumps , and occasionally getting bitten in the neck . tv veteran george clooney , making his feature debut , generates a palpable screen presence . his deadpan delivery of lines like " psychos do not explode when sunlight hits them " is priceless . at present , there is a tarantino backlash in progress , but it's unlikely that the growing public dislike of " mr . overexposure " is going to damage from dusk till dawn's box-office prospects , since the target audience won't care about the prevailing opinion of the screenwriter/co- star . what they want , this film offers : a stylish , ultra-hip twist to one of humanity's oldest , darkest legends . 
2	director : brian helgeland . lots of action films go the anti-hero route , offering protagonists with single-sentence motivations who kill at least as many people as the ostensible villains of the piece . the assumption is that we'll be on the side of the star because . . . well , it doesn't matter how nasty or brutal arnold schwarzenegger or steven seagal get -- if they're the first name on the marquee , they're the ones whose gunplay and fisticuffs are cheered . mel gibson is a different case entirely . there has always been something genuinely unstable behind his eyes when he wants there to be -- mad max , the original lethal weapon , conspiracy theory -- but also something genuinely wounded that makes his instability as sympathetic as it is menacing . along the way to his goal , porter encounters plenty of intriguing characters , which is half the fun of payback . payback works in large part because it's not just mel gibson running around shooting and getting shot at . the whole atmosphere of the film is bleak and corrupt , from ericson core's bleached cinematography to the cold brick of richard hoover's production design . though it comes with a dose of humor , it's usually humor of the black variety , and the film rarely strays far from pulp crime thriller territory . there's violence , and then there's _violence_ , and then there's payback , which never shies away from the roughest rough stuff from the opening scene of un-anesthetized surgery . where a slap might suffice , a pistol-whipping shows up instead ; where you might expect a good old-fashioned roughing up , you can count on the strategic application of a sledgehammer . porter's world is certainly a brutal one , and porter himself is a brutal guy , but after a while it all starts to feel like overkill . you reach the point where you don't need to see val beat up a woman and shoot a dog to figure out that he's not too nice a guy . fortunately , it all comes back to gibson , whose monomania about his $70 , 000 makes just enough sense to keep the plot moving . there's a bit too much effort directed towards making porter seem sensitive through his relationship with a high-priced call girl ( maria bello ) -- apparently the result of gibson's initial dissatisfaction with director and co-writer brian helgeland's relentlessly dark tone -- but it all seems like unnecessary effort . payback only works as entertainment because gibson himself conveys all the reason we need to get behind porter . if you can get past all the bloodshed and brutality , you'll find a surprisingly slick and surprisingly smart action thriller in payback . the amazing thing is that , by all rights , you _shouldn't_ be able to get past it . credit gibson for giving us the kind psycho you can't help cuddling up to . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	duffy , laura fraser , garry sweeney , claire higgins , kevin mckidd , mark mcconnochie director : gillies mackinnon producers : steve clark-hall and billy mackinnon screenplay : billy mackinnon and gillies mackinnon cinematography : john de borman music : john e . keane u . s . distributor : october films as if my strength was drawn from something within my past , that i was moving away from that and i had to go back . " the first is that , despite a fairly unambitious storyline , the film retains a large element of unpredictability . because it eschews cliches and formulas typical to " coming of age " stories , it's difficult for the viewer to guess what's going to happen and how certain situations will be resolved . secondly , when the movie ended , i was a little disappointed - - not because there's anything inherently dissatisfying about the conclusion , but because i would have enjoyed spending more time with these characters . finally , despite the accents , this isn't another trainspotting . the first twenty minutes are jumpy and disjointed , and , at times , it's difficult to sort out characters and circumstances . lex is a splendid lead character : smart , stubborn , and passionate , yet , largely because of his age , impotent in the face of the wave of violence that threatens to drown his family . small faces gets the details right , which is largely why it works . alan's relationship with a local girl is developed perfectly , with an eye towards realism rather than sentimentality . ian robertson's performance as lex reflects the reality of being thirteen -- he thinks he's brave and smart enough to do anything until the time comes for him to take action . though it takes place during another decade in another country , mackinnon's movie has universal implications . for , while the causes of such violence may differ from culture to culture , the inevitable consequences , both physical and emotional , are familiar . we can identify with what these characters are feeling . ultimately , this movie is less about the situation than the people who are trapped by it , and that simple , human element provides small faces with its core strength . 
2	in fiction films , we're used to getting an impartial take on " reality ; " this picture twists that principle . not everything presented in the usual suspects actually happens , and some things occur differently than shown . the opening sequence , which details the climax of the gang's capers , teases the audience about what may or may not be the ultimate resolution . director bryan singer , who debuted in 1993 with public access , has crafted another in the recent batch of '90s noir thrillers . the usual suspects is steeped in atmosphere , and borrows heavily from dozens of sources -- hitchcock , scorsese , the coen brothers , and just about every master of the genre , past or present . like quentin tarantino , singer's greatest strength is culling moments from other sources and using them in his own mold . there aren't many unique instances in the usual suspects , but the entire film is infused with a freshness that results from the manner in which singer has produced it . the energetic , serpentine plot provides the perfect playground in which a series of deliciously devious characters can have fun . the audience is only slowly let into the story -- at the beginning , everyone on-screen knows more than we do . this film requires that a viewer pay careful attention to details . those who get lost have only themselves to blame -- the usual suspects doesn't take any prisoners . the cast is solid , and several of the actors play against type . benicio del toro ( fearless ) provides most of the humor , much of which comes as a result of his nearly indecipherable accent . singer does an excellent job of blending humor into his noir thriller . there's enough to avoid a sense of ponderousness , but not so much that the usual suspects becomes campy . unlike many motion pictures , this one continually builds to its conclusion . as the usual suspects moves towards its inevitable finale , soze's shadowy presence becomes increasingly more ominous and important , and we get the sense that those who think they hold the cards actually have the weakest hands . in the way it folds its various elements into a single resolution ( which the astute viewer will be able to guess beforehand ) , singer's film can be accused of toying with the audience . however , at times like this , when the person tugging the strings is adept at his craft , being toyed with can be a worthwhile experience . the usual suspects is an accomplished synthesis of noir elements and , as such , is an entertaining entry to the genre . 
1	i don't think any american filmmaker in my lifetime has had his personal life as closely associated with his films as woody allen . the compulsively auto-analytical allen created a classic film persona , but he also created a monster : a body of work constantly being read for clues about its creator . at first , it may sound like another apologia for the artist as world-class clod , a la deconstructing harry , but there's actually something more going on in the character of emmet ray . if he's not the best there is at his art , he may not be able to justify his self-imposed isolation from emotional connection . i'm coming to believe that sean penn may be the most talented american actor alive . penn does so many things right as emmet that it suddenly becomes evident that allen doesn't quite know how to handle it when an actor can make his script seem irrelevant . the light-hearted structure , with jazz scholars commenting talking-head style on emmet's misadventures , becomes jarring and distracting as emmet's story unfolds . episodes like emmet's attempt to con an amateur talent contest or his role in a botched hold-up ( told in three possible variations ) feel like forced attempts at giving the film a woody allen sensibility . only when allen holds penn unexpectedly in the dead center of a reaction shot -- a crucial exchange with another character where you'd usually expect a cutaway -- does it appear the director understands what he has working for him . samantha morton has also received plenty of praise for her role as a mute laundress with whom emmet has a lengthy relationship , and it's certainly an impressive physical performance . it's also clear how much morton is contributing to the story when she leaves the story , only to be replaced as primary romantic interest by the gratingly mannered uma thurman . but this is a jazz odyssey that works thanks to a stunning lead performance of a fascinating character , in spite of a structure always on the verge of sabotaging that character . you might suspect that the notoriously private allen was using sweet and lowdown as a first attempt to really open himself up emotionally on screen , but found it so awkward that he had to keep telling jokes . or maybe he's just an imperfect filmmaker who cast a great actor in an imperfect film . naaaaahhhh . . . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
2	love , passion , and irish catholicism collide in the brothers mcmullen , writer/director edward burns' feature debut . this is one of the better independent romantic comedies to come along in a while . although it generally stays true to the cliches and plot turns of the genre , the brothers mcmullen is smart and honest rather than manipulative . instead of resorting to hard-to-swallow story complications , this film stays on-target from its opening moments . along the way , the empty dialogue too often incipient in this sort of picture is replaced by intelligent , insightful conversations . but is this a genuine concern , or just an excuse to avoid commitment ? if this film was only about the three men and their relationships , it would be enjoyable , but not particularly noteworthy . in fact , in the brothers mcmullen , the female halves of the relationships are often smarter and hipper than their male counterparts . despite its occasional forays into weighty matters , the brothers mcmullen largely stays on the light side , where all good romantic comedies reside . the tone is upbeat and the script is laced with wit and , upon occasion , there are moments guaranteed to cause deeper , louder laughter . barry's comparison of relationships to peeling and slicing a banana is the movie's comic highlight . above all , the brothers mcmullen is undeniably charming , and that's the best reason to spend ninety-seven minutes with these men . you don't have to be catholic , or irish , or even american , to " get it . " burns' language , despite originating on long island , is universal in appeal and meaning . 
0	a very familiar crime story , one that has been often done in recent times , about a rough irish neighborhood and the hoods who can't escape from it . first-time director john shea has made this independent low-budget film , that is long on gritty atmosphere but short on substance . it's a violent film , where action speaks louder than words . there doesn't seem to be a point to this film , except to show some tough guys in action , and how difficult it is to stop old habits . the acting is good enough and the background music , a mixture of rap , rock , and celtic sounds , evokes a sense of irish doom . but , the story fails to build any drama into it , and everything seems too bleak . it is an easy film to take on its terms , if you want to take a look at such a dead-end of possibilities and watch a dysfunctional family spin out of control . it reminded me of " monument ave . , " which covered the same territory . it was just too difficult to understand how that could happen considering the hatred between these two is known throughout the community and how danny swore he wouldn't do anything dishonest anymore . there are no surprises here , everything goes down a path to nowhere . since the film has no final note to end on , it uses the st . paddy's day parade to have its final shot--which is tantamount to waving the flag to indicate patriotism , or in this case , irish pride . 
1	o brother , where art thou ? , an adaptation of homer's classic tale , " the odyssey , " is by none other than the coen brothers , joel and ethan . you know , the ones who brought us the big lebowski and fargo . don't worry , there aren't any subtitles , and the adaptation is loose , very loose . set during the depression , the film's imaginative cinematography looks like a print left out to bake in the hot mississippi sun , which makes the heat palpable . the cat-and-mouse story meanders like a leaf drifting lazily on a stagnant pond . this gives you reason to look for the music video and the cd of the soundtrack . it doesn't , however , provide you enough reason to see the picture , which lacks one essential ingredient , humor . this is a comedy in which i didn't laugh once nor did those around me . the coen brothers are brilliant visual stylists , which they amply demonstrated in fargo and do so again in this film . many scenes give you much to admire , even if not much to like . " i'm awful pleased my adventuring days have come to an end , " everett says at the story's conclusion . and so was i . i just wish that it had come much sooner and that i had just seen a music video of the film's singing finale rather than having to sit through the entire movie . it is rated pg-13 for some violence and language and would be acceptable for kids around 10 and up . 
1	screenplay : richard price . director : barbet schroeder . to answer the most obvious question first : no , david caruso's naked posterior does not appear in kiss of death , although it might have been appropriate . caruso's first opportunity for an " i told you so " comes in kiss of death , but he might be advised to postpone any self- congratulation . in a film that is erratic but frequently intense , his casting in the lead role is the most glaring flaw . the screenplay for kiss of death , written by richard price based on a 1947 film noir of the same name , is a dense piece of plotting , but an extremely confident one . like a novel , kiss of death unfolds in well-developed pieces , building towards a solid conclusion with very little extraneous material . the plot's twists are both relevant and unexpected , and director barbet schroeder keeps a steady hand on the pace . yet somehow , in the middle of all the clockwork plotting , gaping flaws in logic and flat-out sloppiness appear . then , near the end of the film , one of the big payoff revelations is spoiled by an unnecessary establishing shot . it sometimes seems that schroeder is so busy painting the trim on the house that is kiss of death that he fails to notice it's missing a wall . it's a good thing that so many of the people in that house are so interesting . he is mis-used in the conclusion for a gimmicky applause moment , but otherwise turns in stellar work . add stanley tucci's duplicitous d . a . and helen hunt as jimmy's recovering alcoholic wife , and you have one of the best supporting casts since pulp fiction . unlike pulp fiction , however , the lead performances are not of the same caliber . nicolas cage is an actor who has shown the ability to play everything from romantic leads to villains , but there is no center to little junior . as for caruso , he is given a role that would be a challenge to make sympathetic by an actor with much greater range . caruso is unable to give jimmy any humanity , delivering every line in the same hushed , primed-to-explode manner . only he never does explode , and it is particularly telling that jimmy's one big emotional outburst occurs behind a closed door . we need to see jimmy as a charater reacting to what is happening to him , but by playing him with an omnipresent hangdog resignation , caruso might have been the kiss of death for a potentially engrossing thriller . 
0	in the case of the look who's talking films , the third time definitely isn't a charm . there are few enough ideas that can support a sequel , not to mention two , and look who's talking isn't among that select group . yes , the original entry was clever , occasionally funny , and worth a look--at least on video . look who's talking too , however , was downright awful . number three in the series isn't worse than its immediate predecessor ( thankfully ) , but it's not better either . my sincere hope is that this flat , lifeless excuse for family entertainment will put an end to these pictures for good . their chemistry was never perfect , but it was good enough to suit a light comedy . if james and molly are still in love , you can't tell it from the performances . talk about actors on auto-pilot ! the dogs generate more pg-rated heat than these two stiffs . the entire acting scene isn't bleak , though . the role isn't much of a challenge , but ms . anthony is never boring . also , little tabitha lupien is tremendously cute as julie , and does a good job outacting everyone older than her . by now , the one-liners and juvenile humor have become worn out . even the little kids in the audience didn't appear to be enjoying themselves--and this is aimed at them . the few " adult " double entendres are so obvious that no one who understands them is likely to do more than smirk . there are two specific moments in this movie worth mentioning . the first is the opening shot--a no-cuts scene of well-choreographed bedtime mass confusion that runs on for about five minutes . the second is an in-joke for those who remember that ms . alley originated the role of the half-vulcan lt . saavik in star trek ii . here , donning the pointy ears as one of santa's helpers , she informs an annoying patron that she's quite willing to demonstrate the " vulcan death grip . " as you can tell from these " high points , " this film is sorely lacking in reasons why anyone of sound mind would want to watch it . even charles barkley's big-screen acting debut can't camouflage a wandering script built on formulas and cliches . look who's talking now has about as much appeal as the pile that rocks leaves on the back seat of james' cab . 
1	full of marvelously creative and colorful images and energetic music , the movie represents the extended rock video approach to filmmaking . the images are casually and confusingly assembled into a musical montage a la mtv . after this fairy tale is sprinkled on , the story quickly shakes off the pixie dust and moves back into a more traditional storyline . the movie then skips back in time again to examine brian's life . the movie makes much of his bisexuality , with orgies of groupies being common . a complete opposite , curt exudes raw masculinity and likes nothing better than taking off his clothes on stage to shock his fans . curt wears tight-fitting jeans without a shirt , whereas the effeminate brian favors long , flowing gowns and bright , psychedelic colors . the film periodically develops pretentious streaks as it attempts to find meaning in its subjects . the implication is that morals are unimportant if his star can develop sufficient fame . the energetic film is full of good music , even mahler's 6th makes several appearances , but comes to a grinding halt in the last half hour as it decides to get serious . only as a colorful rock video does the film succeed . the dialog and the storyline are merely distractions . even with its limitations as a motion picture , at least velvet goldmine is exceedingly picturesque . it is rated r for strong sexual content , nudity , profanity and drug usage and would be unacceptable for most teenagers . 
1	the problem with movies like rush hour 2 that give away almost all of the good jokes in the trailers is that seeing the movie itself is about as much fun as watching reruns . in rush hour 2 , this problem is further compounded by the lack of freshness in the jokes themselves . the movie's almost saving grace is that it stars that teddy bear of a martial arts comedic hero , jackie chan . and women , if you do have a thing for jackie , you'll be glad to know that you'll get a chance to catch a glimpse of his naked buttocks this time . blink , and you'll miss it . they have good chemistry together even if tucker keeps trying to upstage chan . but , if you've seen the trailers , you already know the joke . the setup this time , to the extent that one is needed in a chan movie , concerns the thwarting of an international counterfeiting ring . don cheadle has a cameo that works best in the outtakes , just about always the best part of any chan film anyway . as always , chan is lovable , funny and vulnerable . unlike most action heroes , his pain is palpable . working from an unimaginative script by ross lamanna , director brett ratner is never able to get the pacing right , with long slack sections slowing the momentum between funny moments . in the movies today , all roads lead to las vegas , where the neon glitters and all of the buildings are little more than movie sets for adults . rush hour 2 ends there in a burst of glory that hints at what could have been if the rest of the movie were better written and more tightly paced . it is rated pg-13 for action violence , language and some sexual material and would be acceptable for kids around 8 and up . they both thought that it was funny and had well planned out laughs . in the silicon valley it will be showing at the amc and the century theaters . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
2	if you are an alcoholic , if any of your close friends or relatives are , or if you or your close friends have a problem with anger and depression , then when a man loves a woman should be in your don't miss category . it is arguably , the most realistic film ever made about the totality of an alcoholic's life from the highs to the lows and from addiction to recovery and equally important about what it does to the loved ones around them . watch the husband and especially the kids in this movie . they are totally believable and thereby make you feel very sad and frighten for their characters . the directing by luis mandoki takes risks with the audience by assuming they want honesty over entertainment . this is a frightening show and not a fun one . the script by ronald bass and al franken goes for the jugular in many of the scenes . the movie starts with the signs of alcoholism starting to rear its ugly head , but with many good times for meg as she gets high and does lots of wild and crazy things . this is only show i can remember where they smoked , and it made sense for them to do so . when a man loves a woman is an appropriately long show at 2 : 06 , but it needed the time to fully document the problems . it is correctly rated r for some scary and realistic material . if your teenagers want to see it , be sure and go with them and then discuss it afterwards . i award this excellent film * * * 1/2 . don't miss this show ! * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : may 6 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	the simple story taps in on the hatred the railroad people have for the tramps . aldrich for the most part steers clear of the political situation in the country , instead he uses these men as powerful mythic symbols , showing the oppressed versus the oppressor . while borgnine is a sadist , who sports a menacing grin . if the kid could just shut up and be grateful that he is learning how to be a hobo from the king , marvin could have warmed up to him a little . marvin is terrific as the spry and wizened hobo . borgine is a caricature of someone spewing hatred . it's just too bad that the director couldn't connect all the dots with the corrupt political situation that caused this great suffering and left so many with hardened hearts . 
2	starring : mohamad ali keshavarz , hossein rezai , tahereh ladanian , zarifeh shiva written , produced , and directed by abbas kiarostami cinematography : hossein djafarian released by miramax films subtitled slow almost to the point of stagnation , the movie serves the dual function of a character/relationship study and a firsthand look at the difficulties of making a motion picture in the rural regions of iran . if you've never had the unique experience of simultaneously being bored and fascinated by a movie , through the olive trees is a likely candidate for the first opportunity . i didn't fall asleep during the film , but many patrons in the theater understandably did . nothing much happens during the one-hundred minute running time . there's no dialogue during this scene , and the only sound ( other than the music ) is the wind rustling through the olive trees . those without a tolerance for slow , deliberate movies will find this a trial beyond belief . it's not much of stretch to call this the cinematic equivalent of a sominex . the seemingly-turgid pace is necessary , however . had things moved faster , numerous subtle and intricate touches would have been lost . the characters are all marvelously realized , and their interaction is so unforced that it draws the viewer in . kiarostami has used carefully- framed point-of-view camera shots to emphasize the intimacy of his picture . this movie puts the audience right next to the actors . the story is simple . a film director is making a movie in the iranian countryside . a finer cinematic portrait of unrequited love has not been seen since manon of the spring . not only is the courtship ( such as it is ) of tahereh and hossein presented with a rare and unflinching honesty , but we are * not * given an opportunity to find out how things are resolved . the film's ending is open to interpretation and reminds us that movies are only windows into another reality , and it's possible for them to close at the most inopportune times . moments of comedy are sprinkled throughout , often relating to the difficulties experienced by the director of the film-within-the-film as he attempts to get uncooperative performers to complete a take . this device of having actors playing the actors who filmed one of kiarostami's previous films ( the on-screen director is actually actor mohamad ali keshavarz playing kiarostami ) creates opportunities for confusion , but mostly it lends an air of verisimilitude to the proceedings that results in a documentary-like style . kiarostami , a master of camera angles , uses a preponderance of deceptively simple shots to give his production a perspective that's very different from that of most current feature releases . through the olive trees is an exceptionally well-crafted and thoughtful motion picture . there is no melodrama here -- this is straightforward drama without frills or flourishes . nevertheless , there are many -- even among the art-film crowd -- who will find this to be a colossal waste of time . american/iranian cultural differences are an issue , but the real obstacle is the pacing . everyone else will get a nice nap . 
0	a concept alone does not a movie make . like a computer virus , the rumor spreads rapidly , harming more than the intended victim . that's the theory anyway . working from an underdeveloped and ridiculous script by gregory poirier and theresa rebeck , davis guggenheim directs gossip with meat cleaver subtlety . it's too bad that the director didn't throw up his hands and go for pure camp . the over-the-top , creepy music ( graeme revell ) and the ominously dark cinematography ( andrzej bartkowiak ) would have nicely supported such an approach . as those of you unlucky enough to have seen body shots last year will notice , the art design looks similar , right down to the silly , pastel cocktails , served in a rainbow of colors . as a parody , the film might have at least worked its way up to a guilty pleasure . but , it is not to be . the director buys into the pretentious and preposterous story , producing groans from the audience instead of laughter . in a film full of ludicrous moments , permit me to choose a favorite . the movie is filled with thoughts that will make your blood boil . " i don't even know what i'm doing , " travis says of his art . ( i forgot to tell you . the director might say the same of his movie , which he directs with plodding lethargy . but , if you have any doubt as to who or what killed the movie , wait for the ending . derision and catcalls are liable to fill the air in your theater as it did it ours during the ending scene . the script did it . it is rated r for sexual content , language and brief violence and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	brian de palma , who hasn't made a decent movie in over a decade , surprising shows with mission to mars that he can still be as good as he once was . ( actually , given its intensity , a pg-13 might have been more appropriate , but that's a minor quibble . ) in a film that pays homage to many other science fiction films that have gone before it , most notably 2001 : a space odyssey , mission to mars manages to feel fresh , not derivative . an imaginative and magical film , it has a mesmerizing effect on the audience as it builds slowly toward the big secret . de palma's staging choices are truly inspired . this sequence dazzles with a gossamer beauty . another breathtaking scene concerns a space walk gone bad . using the quietness and solitude of space , de palma gives us a disaster in real-time that feels like slow-motion . half of the time it is lovely , and the other half it is gratingly inappropriate . a few of the scenes are delicately funny . it is rated pg for mild science-fiction violence . the film would be appropriate for kids 11 and up , although many younger ones might enjoy it as well . in the san jose area it will be playing at the amc and the century theaters . 
2	secrets -- every family has them , but some families' secrets are more shocking than others . in the directorial debut of tim roth , an actor famous for such villainous roles as his oscar nominated performance in rob roy , roth tackles one of the toughest subjects possible , incest . the astonishing film , the war zone , isn't as unwatchable as the title or the early buzz about the picture might suggest . with his almost reverential respect for his actors , roth lets us share the inner strengths as well as the pain of the teen victims . alexander stuart's sparse script , based on his novel , lets roth tell the story through a set of incredibly strong visuals . the best actors can do more with their faces than their words , and roth takes this ensemble cast to new heights of telling imagery . speaking would just distract from many of the moments anyway . one look at the faces attempting bravely to hold back the tears and the explosive anger , and you know all you need to know . to an outside observer or even a close neighbor , the patriarchal family in the movie would appear perfectly normal and happy . the gregarious and polite dad ( ray winstone ) seems kind and gentle and the mum ( tilda swinton ) just as sweet . in the movie's most telling scene , tom finally gets just the evidence he needs , but it so sickens him that he immediately destroys it . roth isn't skittish about detailing the incest . the scenes are explicit , not to shock or to titillate but to make clear exactly what is happening and exactly how painful it is . roth said that he feels the material demands this level of frankness . with hauntingly sad piano music by simon boswell , the picture literally cries out to us in anguish . the war zone has but one counterpart , ang lee's the ice storm . neither is easy viewing , perhaps , but both are emotionally rewarding . it is not rated but would probably be nc-17 for explicit sex , nudity , language and some violence . the film would not be appropriate for those under 18 . 
1	mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , adult themes ) running time : 109 minutes . what dreams may come , a sort of post-mortem romantic fantasy-drama , shows us a world which is unlike any we've seen before on screen . oh sure , plenty of films have ventured into the realms of the afterlife , from the sublime ( defending your life ) to the ridiculous ( jacob's ladder ) . this , however , is a heaven of a different , considerably gaudier color . those scenes in chris's heaven-of-his-own-making highlight what dreams may come at its finest , creating spectacularly imaginative visions of the next world . unfortunately , those same scenes also highlight the film's most glaring weakness . it's an inevitable part of metaphysical fantasies like this that someone has to bring the audience up to speed on exactly what they're seeing and why . that doesn't make it any less tedious , especially when what dreams may come isn't supposed to be about what makes particular cosmic gears turn the way they do . the scenes of chris's earthly life with his family , strewn throughout the film in a near-subliminal series of flashbacks , form a potent back-story of a life which isn't as suburban-ideal as it first appears . there's something compelling about the suggetion that love doesn't have to be perfect to be powerful . those emotions should have carried what dreams may come to a transcendent level , if not for those nagging distractions . it's not just the constant exposition which causes the problems , either . an even bigger distraction is robin williams , whose performance can't quite capture the aching love he's supposed to be feeling . williams is certainly a fine performer , but there are times when he's giving a " serious " performance that he looks like he's trying way too hard . the furrows in his brow , the perpetually fidgeting lip and the over-dramatized line readings turn too many interpersonal moments into exercises in how not to act on the big screen . annabella sciorra's convincing anguish could have grounded the story in heart-breaking reality if williams hadn't kept pulling it into melodrama . again , the marvelous look of the film draws you in , as annie's shattered mindscape takes the form of the nielsens' home turned a desolate grey . and again , a viewer is pulled away from the look of the film by tortuous exposition and emotional confrontations which only feel genuine on one side . what dreams may come will likely wring tears from those entranced by the ghost-like prospect of romance beyond the pale . for others , it will seem like a missed opportunity . if a tale of primal fears and primal emotions can't grab you without a nattering narrator , something's very wrong . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	melville establishes his exquisite control of the subject matter by allowing the story to unfold in such a perfect manner . i suspect , not many directors have that kind of grace and understanding of life . . . melville's sense of how to tell a story has influenced many directors through his long career starting in the late 40s , and that list would include the great director , bresson , who developed the same style and feel for filmmaking as melville , who at times outdoes melville's melville , giving some the false impression that melville imitated bresson . melville's success comes through the intelligent use he makes of his eye for seeing what is spiritual and what is intelligent , and allowing it to be emotionally compelling . his argument for a god couldn't be put forth with more verve and intelligence , even though it didn't convince me , as he was not challenged with counter arguments by any one in the film who had the ability to present a cogent differing opinion , nevertheless , this film moved me to further expand what i think . . . it even shows that it is possible to have a truly spiritual person be a part of the church , something that i have rarely come across outside the cinema . 
0	" you know who i am ? " " i am your genie . " " i wish i was as big as you but not so stupid ! " the rest are laughably bad . " you smell like hippopotamus butt , " max yells at kazaam in one of the film's typically trite snippets of dialog . the others are a little better . only shaquille o'neal works at his part , the rest of the cast barely work up a sweat . the show works only as a showcase for o'neal's modest acting talents . for all its failings , there is something to be said for a movie where at least one person , o'neal , is clearly having a great time . too bad he wasn't able to transfer his enthusiasm better to the audience . and too bad the show did not have a better script and supporting cast . it is rated pg for some cartoonish violence . the show would be fine for kids five and up and perhaps younger . my son jeffrey , age 8 , likes the movie a lot . i cannot recommend the film , and i think * 1/2 is more than generous . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : may 18 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	a dull and oppressingly long three-hour ode to the glory of war and killing . this strictly commercial film's budget was for $135 million and uses as its model for financial success " titanic " and its anti-historical way of telling its historical story . it's a film made for the huge crowds it hopes to pull in , by giving them all the goo they could possibly ingest in one sitting . it ran a clich ? romance story for two hours worth of the film and after 80 minutes of this corny love story , the japanese at last attack pearl harbor and the film to its credit accurately gets the chaos of the events right ( the only thing it got right in the film ) . this invasion was the heart of the film and lasted for about 40 minutes ; it got its money's worth in good airplane battle footage from the computer-generated imagery ( though the scene itself had a flatness that made it appear uninvolving but competenly done ; there was no emotional resonance to any of the action ; it was respected for its technical achievement rather than for being artistic ) . for the last third of the film you could have skipped out and missed nothing , because it went back to that annoying love story it was hammering out . every thing about this film was second rate ; especially , when compared to modern war films such as " saving private ryan . " the trite dialogue , inept script , misuse of history , irritating character portrayals , the soapy background music , and the clanky acting by everyone concerned , made this overlong work into a critical bomb . every character was a stock character seen in many other hollywood films . i couldn't help myself from laughing , it was such a silly attempt at patriotism . that's about as deep as we get into their characters . kate has fine features and virtuous good looks , and an empty expression that is the same both for love of rafe and of country . the film plays it safe and lays no blame on why pearl harbor was so unprotected . no character in the film had any shading or depth , everyone was a forgettable personality . the one-dimensional characters just say their lines and the film keeps moving along . though this film failed in every which way to provide a history lesson , or an engaging story , or be an entertaining film ; still i'm afraid it will have box-office success . it reduced everything to the lowest commom denominator by the crass bruckheimer rules for commercial success ( keep the dialogue banal and down to the film's theme , and keep everything in motion so no ideas could get in the way of the mindless violence on the screen ; this way it remains on a fourth grade level and can be easily understood by the masses ) . it would be difficult to make a film more shallow than this one ; but , i'm cynically looking forward to bay and bruckheimer teaming up again , i think they have the potential to stoop lower than they have so far ( because as bad as this film was , it could have been worst ) . 
1	" you said the good times were going to last forever , " bats complains . moss , in an underwritten role , turns in one of the film's best performances . suffice it to say that you don't want to mess with her feet . this geriatric group and their colorful fellow travelers come up with several nice laughs and funny scenes , but too often the jokes themselves are nearly dead . writer barry fanaro ( kingpin ) just doesn't come up with quite enough good stuff for me to be able to recommend the picture . older audiences , however , will likely be as pleased with it as were my parents . it is rated pg-13 for sexual content , violence and language and would be acceptable for kids around 11 and up . my son jeffrey , age 11 , said that the movie was pretty good and gave it * * 1/2 . he complained , correctly , that the film's trailers give away the best lines . 
2	on this , the 60th anniversary of that classic , sweetly hokey , but delightful romantic musical , love's labour's lost from 1940 , the studio is re-releasing it so that this generation can savor its charms . based on the shakespeare play of the same name , the movie features more song and dance numbers than you can count . you do remember it don't you ? the biggest production number is set to " there's no business like show business . " the famous songs include : " i get a kick out of you , " " just the way you look tonight , " " when we're out together dancing cheek to cheek , " " let's face the music and dance " and " they can't take that away >from me . " directed by kenneth branagh , the large cast includes kenneth branagh , alessandro nivola , alicia silverstone , natascha mcelhone , matthew lillard , adrian lester , timothy spall , nathan lane , stefania rocca , richard clifford , emily mortimer and carmen ejogo . okay , so i lied . this is actually a new movie made very much in the spirit of an old one . complete with a great film score and rich , oversaturated colors like the old technicolor prints , this new film is an audacious homage to the musicals of old . it even has an esther williams-style synchronized swimming number . the decidedly amateurish production is actually more interesting because of it . it is easy to picture yourself singing and dancing along with the actors . " hey , if they can do it , so can i , " you'll find yourself thinking . the weakest part of the script is the play itself , not one of shakespeare's better efforts . but this isn't a problem since , most of the time , the players are singing their hearts out and not speaking elizabethan english . it is undeniably fun , however , to hear alicia silverstone ( clueless ) uttering such lines as " i am too sudden bold . " it took a lot of guts for the cast to do this , knowing full-well that many critics would make fun of them since most do not appear to have had the proper musical training . the result is a good-spirited film that makes you want to sing and dance . how many movies have done that for you lately ? people are always asking me why they don't make musicals any more . well , they do -- sometimes . this is one of the few , and it deserves a good-sized audience . unlike bad teen comedies and gory action flicks , which play for weeks and weeks , the run of musicals is , sadly , very short . it is rated pg for sensuality and a brief drug reference and would be fine for all ages . 
0	starring : steven seagal , michael caine , joan chen , john c . mcginley . screenplay : ed horowitz & robin u . russin . director : steven seagal . many filmmakers need someone to be the voice of reason , and that someone is usually the producer . the need can be even greater when the filmmaker in question is a rookie director , which brings us to the first law's first corollary : be especially wary when the name appearing three times before the title is seagal . on deadly ground marks action icon steven seagal's first time in the director's chair , and it looks like it . self-indulgent and deadly dull for at least half of its running time , on deadly ground demonstrates why an ego like seagal's needs something to keep it in check . for those of you who didn't believe steven seagal could do anything more ineptly than he acts , here's evidence to the contrary . he appears to have learned nothing about pacing and exposition from his two collaborations with andrew davis , turning in an action film painfully short on action . the first hour is devoted to an overlong set-up , briefly interrupted by a barroom brawl so badly edited in places that they had to dub in exclamations so that it would be clear exactly where forrest is kicking his victims . we are subjected to a handful of soapbox speeches about environmental degradation , including one in the middle of a thoroughly pointless dream/vision sequence . however , almost none of it is inspired until forrest reaches aegis 1 , and almost invariably the editing is attrocious . lots of things blow up in on deadly ground , but there is a " so what " quality to the pyrotechnics . still , seagal at least could have had the sense to end the film with a bang , instead of with a five minute monologue about the horrors of oil companies which rivals kevin costner's jfk skreed for dramatic ineptitude . it isn't even the point that he may be right ; he's just chosen the wrong forum . of course , the ultimate problem with any steven seagal project is that it must inevitably star steven seagal . where schwarzenegger entertains with his comic book persona and one-liners , and stallone brings an underdog quality to his action flicks , seagal's squinting stoic is just boring . under siege at least had a chance thanks to tommy lee jones' lively villain , but michael caine is not in that league , playing a nasty businessman we've seen a hundred times before . john c . mcginley puts a nice spin on the enforcer role , daring to lose his cool and admit he's no match for the hero . if directing on deadly ground is seagal's idea of stretching himself , i'd offer the words of laurence olivier as advice : " just * act * , dear boy ; it's much easier . " 
1	screenplay : joss whedon . director : jean-pierre jeunet . mpaa rating : r ( violence , gore , profanity , brief nudity ) running time : 109 minutes . i'm sure that someone could -- and will -- come up with an explanation for all the pseudo-science involved in the premise for alien resurrection . i'm sure there is some reason why that same cloning process turned ripley into a human/alien hybrid with memories of her previous life . i'm sure there's some reason why the same alien queen which had been producing eggs could suddenly become viviparous . i'm sure there is some reason why i should be able to yank " willing suspension of disbelief " from the jaws of " oh , _please_ . " the thing is , alien resurrection didn't give me much reason to care about what those reasons might be . and that would be the same ripley who became an action icon in three previous films , not the vaguely sinister approximation served up here . all the effort to make ripley's return " realistic " still adds up to a cargo hold full of question marks and an emotional vacuum at the film's center . call me crazy , but if a writer's going to push the limits of credulity , i'd prefer him to say , " alien3 was just a dream . director jean-pierre jeunet ( delicatessen , city of lost children ) has a genuine visual flair which inspires some sharp sequences , notably an underwater escape for our protagonists which leads into an alien trap . unfortunately , he devotes most of his creative energy to coming up with new and innovative ways for the aliens to treat the heads of their victims like unsightly facial blemishes . alien resurrection is frequently a bath of viscera , a collection of graphic deaths rendered in glorious , gratuitous detail . it all contributes to the impression that alien resurrection is a " moment " film -- a bunch of neat ideas for individual scenes so impersonally rendered that they never add up to a coherent narrative . as a film , it's never boring , featuring a typically whacked-out performance by brad dourif as one of the scientists , a clever instance of alien teamwork and self-sacrifice , and a potent encounter between ripley and a laboratory full of abominations . it's also never compelling in a way we should expect when a character has this much cinematic history . by the time its climactic confrontation rolls around -- involving a creature resembling the evil doppleganger of the pillsbury doughboy -- alien resurrection has become flat-out ridiculous , a big violent joke at the expense of viewers expecting a real story about ellen ripley . i can't see most fans of the series walking away from this experience satisfied . more likely , the'll walk away muttering , " oh , _please_ . " see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	first , let me confess that i am a big shakespeare fan . i have loved most of the movies based on his plays , and franco zeffirelli's romeo and juliet and kenneth branagh's henry v are among my favorites of all the movies of any type that i've ever seen . sad to say , that othello proves that , with the poor direction , even shakespeare can be made boring . when i kept seeing the trailers for the movie , i wondered why there was little dialog shown . i now know why . first time director oliver parker has the actors read their lines slowly , softly , and without a hint of emotion . shakespeare on prozac . there is little to offend in the movie , but neither is there much to engage the audience . i will not cover the story here other than to say that the cast consists of laurence fishburne as othello , irene jacob as desdemona , kenneth branagh as iago , nathaniel parker as cassio , and michael maloney as roderigo . most of you probably already know the story . the surprise for me was the acting by laurence fishburne . i think he is awesome and have admired his work , especially what's love got to do with it and searching for bobby fischer . i am convinced that , with proper direction , he could have given a compelling and original rendition of othello . only kenneth branagh attempts to breath a little life into his character , but in the end he gives the worse performance of his career . his soliloquies to the audience are vapid . the director decided to have his actors attempt heavy italian accents . the thick accents coupled with the low delivery and the shakespearean language means it is very hard to follow the film . take along a cliff's notes with you if you go so you can keep up with it . on the other hand , the lack of energy parker gives the movie may put you to sleep before you get around to opening the pamphlet . at one point , iago says , " pleasure and action make the hours seem short " . and vice versa i thought to myself . there are many small things wrong with the movie . most of the costumes ( caroline harris ) are standard issue from the shakespeare part of the costume department , but the armor that othello wears in the beginning seems not to fit fishburne and overall just looks silly . the only thing done right in the movie is the cinematography ( david johnson ) . it is full of warm and realistic candlelit rooms . granted it is nothing unusual , but it is pleasant to watch . it is rated r for brief nudity and a little sex . a pg-13 rating might have been more appropriate . the scenes getting it the r rating added little and without them , the movie could have been pg . this movie would be fine for anyone over ten , but i can not see why people would want to waste their time at it . if you must see othello , then rent the franco zeffirelli directed film version of the opera with placido domingo staring in it . if you hate opera , then rent one of the other fine film adaptations of shakespeare's plays . i give this film one star because although it was boring , it was not painful . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : january 10 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	if you find those irritating car burglar alarms that go off for no reason whatsoever to be the equivalent of fingernails across a blackboard , the movie mighty joe young suggests the perfect solution . you need to ask your spouse for a 2 , 000-pound gorilla for christmas . being close ancestors to homo sapiens , big apes hate those loathsome alarms as much as we do , but they can do something dramatic about it . and if you're an overgrown ape like joe , the film's humongous star , all you need to do is stomp and sit on the screeching car a few times in order to turn it into raw recycling material . ron underwood , who has given us comedies as brilliant as city slickers and as dreadful as speechless , directs this remake of the 1949 movie mighty joe young . the sweet image of them nestled together , while hiding in the heavy brush , is one of many such tender moments in the picture . the childlike innocence of these game scenes and the one of jill is being cuddled while singing joe to sleep are the movie's best . the formulaic plot with cartoon-cutout villains is the story at its worst . little joe chews off a finger and a thumb from strasser's hand in the beginning of the movie . throughout the movie , the camera loves to stare at the hand with the missing digits . this is just one of the cheap tricks that the director falls back on when he can't think of anything else to do . the men in the audience will have no problem believing this . most would be happy to follow her commands . the chemistry between joe and jill is excellent , as is the love interest between gregg and jill . the gorilla is either growling , which may scare the daylights out of some kids , or playing , which will delight everyone . the story itself is so thin , involving the evil strasser's attempt to steal joe for his body parts , that it keeps dragging . the movie tries to have a surprising ending but can't quite bring itself to do it . in ends nicely enough but in the same formulaic spirit of the rest of picture . even so , you can't help but have a soft spot in your heart for a film with a lovable ape and two charming human leads . the three of them are better than the movie that they are in . it is rated pg for violence and would be fine for kids around 8 and up , although some younger kids may be able to handle it . my son jeffrey , age 9 , thought the movie was sort of " so-so , " and gave it * * . he complained that it should have been rated pg-13 since he found some of it scary . 
1	snow falling on cedars is a silent movie . well , not exactly , but director scott hicks ( shine ) does rely chiefly on tableaux to tell the story , which is based on david guterson's well-respected novel . this isn't quite as hopeless as it might seem , since robert richardson's breathtaking cinematography of the pacific northwest during the snowiest winter in decades is nothing short of astounding . couple this with gorgeous settings and richly evocative music , and you've got a movie that's a real treat for the eyes and the ears . your mind , however , will not be equally engaged . cutting back and forth in time and locale , hicks only confuses the viewers . if these visual slights of hand served some purpose it might be different , but they don't . at the center of the story is a fascinating trial . hawke ( before sunrise ) , who is an accomplished actor , isn't able to do anything with his part in this picture because of the restrictions placed upon him by the director . hicks strategically places ishmael in each scene and then has him look as stoic as possible while saying absolutely nothing . stone statues have more warmth . although the trial sequences are mesmerizing , hicks uses them only as a glue to hold the rest of the story together . the script by hicks and ronald bass devotes most of the movie to the long background material on the years before the trial . as we spend long minutes observing native flora , the movie takes on the same remote and dispassionate feel found in the thin red line . whether it will be enough to save his client is , nonetheless , questionable . paced faster and with much of the extraneous material pruned back , snow falling on cedars could have been an outstanding motion picture instead of merely a handsome one . posturing as an art form works for painters , but the technique isn't suitable for an action medium . hicks should have given hawke some meaningful lines and let him out of his straightjacket . together they could have fashioned something wonderful . it is rated pg-13 for disturbing images , sensuality and brief strong language and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	this crushes agba's heart because he loves the horse so . on board the ship , disaster strikes , as it always does on board ships in stories like this . once in france , the horses are not very welcomed . although they should be prime racing horses , the french find them inferior because they are afterall , smaller than normal . only sham is saved so that he can do menial chores pulling a wagon . from there , you can write the rest of the story yourself . pretty much what you think will happen does . nevertheless , the film is about agba and navin chowdhry gives a miserable and lifeless performance as agba . this is a movie that tries first and foremost to be wholesome . it succeeds . on the other hand , as compelling entertainment , it does not deliver . even my amiable son jeffrey ( age 7 ) , who tends to like every single movie he sees , found it kind of boring . if you want to see a great story about horses , try black beauty ( 1994 ) . it is rated pg , but it is really more a g film . i am not quite sure why it got the pg rating . it would be fine for any kid , but i suspect the slow pace and the lack of an involving story may lose the attention of most children . i can not recommend this show whose only claims to fame are that it is about horses and that it is for whole family . i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	in print and television interviews , everyone associated with reality bites has been trying desperately to convince potential viewers that it's not a " generation x " movie , but just a simple romantic comedy . yeah . right . reality bites follows slacker ; singles ; and bodies , rest & motion in the sweepstakes to most accurately capture the 20-something zeitgeist , but i found it more reminiscent of star winona ryder's breakthrough film heathers . while reality bites does include some very funny moments and finely observed insight , it also tends to reduce its central characters to a collection of kitschy bon mots . reality bites is strongest on the level of details and the number of individual laughs of recognition they provide . i will admit to participating in a group sing-along of " conjunction junction " like these characters , and to playing games based on sit-com episodes . vickie is perhaps the most recognizable type to me ; i know a few people who cover their walls with old music posters and beg for you to turn up bad power pop songs with memories of junior high school dances . more so than singles , reality bites identifies the sense of ideological drift that characterizes americans in their mid-20s , but without the moody self-importance of bodies , rest & motion . this is not to say that childress doesn't also give in to easy stereotypes . every parent in reality bites is characterized by a cartoonish materialism , and becomes an easy target for blame . the romantic triangle doesn't have quite the impact it could have had because as attractive as ryder is , she doesn't seem nearly as interesting as , say , vickie . troy is an even more problematic character , a first class self-absorbed jerk who philosophizes in bastardized advertising jingles . the transformation childress tries to foist off on us is far too contrived , and she seems too willing to let troy's attitude stand as an acceptable response to the world he perceives . fortunately , they are somewhat balanced by two delightful supporting performances . comic janeane garofolo ( tv's the larry sanders show ) is hysterical as vickie , displaying a natural timing which makes the most mundane lines funny . director ben stiller is charming as lelaina's perpetually flustered suitor , and should be congratulated for risking the hesitating delivery which makes his character appear very real . i have to note that i was extremely disappointed by the ending of reality bites , but that may say more about me than about the film . while there are numerous character stumbles , overall i felt the tone was on target , and i laughed a lot . reality bites off a bit more than it can chew , but it all goes down eventually . 
0	no escape is a non-stop action flick in the steven seagal genre . you get to witness lots and lots of people dying many different horrible deaths in front of your very eyes . especially popular are impalements , but decapitations are also quite the rage . actually , i like some of these extreme action movies , but only if there is a fast paced story behind it all as in die hard or under siege and only if you can care about the people . no escape had neither of these attributes . can you imagine a hollywood movie where a big business was not evil ? oh well , i digress . the jokes manage rarely to be funny however . the script by michael gaylin , joel gross , and richard herley was full of nonsense laced with failed attempts at humor . the major failing of the movie is that of the director , martin campbell , and the script writers . they have made characters that you do not care if they live or die . maybe if they had edited it down to 30 minutes , it would have worked as a " twilight zone " episode , but 1 hour and 58 minutes was way too long . the sets here were cute if a bit ridiculous . prisons in 2022 it turns out will look a lot like 13th century china complete with costumes for warriors of that era . my biggest disappointment was with ray liotta . he played one of the scariest ex-cons ever in jonathan demme's something wild and has been excellent in many other shows since , e . , goodfellas and unlawful entry . in this movie , he is , well , boring . his performance was that of robocop but without robocop's humor . don't waste your money . i give it * since it was not a bad show just a monotonous one . it is rated r for all of the above mentioned gory violence . it is probably okay for older teenagers if they feel like they have to see it . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : april 29 , 1994 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	angela pope's hollow reed is one of the most striking , forceful films to emerge onto the american art house scene so far this year , but , like many powerful motion pictures , it can be extremely difficult to watch . and , while the beatings aren't as graphic or brutal as those in another recent domestic violence motion picture , once were warriors , they're all the more wrenching because , in this case , the victim is a ten year old boy . yet , if hollow reed's sole subject matter had been child abuse , it wouldn't have been as provocative or challenging . equality is a word that everyone loves to speak , but , in today's world , there are times when it remains a distant fantasy . part of the reason that hollow reed is so punishing is that it's told from a child's point-of-view . relating the story from oliver's perspective allows us to better understand the fear , confusion , and self-blame that the child experiences . physical damage isn't the only byproduct of abuse ; it has deep-reaching psychological ramifications as well , the effects of which can be far more lasting . oliver's reasons for not telling are complex , and hollow reed makes his silence on the subject seem completely rational under the circumstances . understandably , he doesn't like frank , but , while the movie casts him in the role of the villain , it manages to humanize him to a degree , offering a motivation for his actions . his impotence ratchets up the level of tension that pope works so hard to create . hollow reed isn't meant to be a thriller , but the tone is darker and more ominous than is typical for a drama . the key to donovan's performance is that it starts out low-key . however , all of the adults , including richardson , donovan , and the fine supporting cast , are outacted by young sam bould , who captures the essence of oliver without a hint of the confusion and awkwardness that sometimes marks child performances . bould has many memorable moments -- hiding under a work bench so that frank won't find him , preparing to defend himself with a chisel , and bravely enduring the punishment that frank dishes out . in life , there are no easy answers , and hollow reed is nothing if not an accurate mirror of reality . this is not the sort of motion picture that's likely to find favor with the " feel good " crowd , but , if you aren't afraid of a movie that is capable of challenging convictions and wrenching emotions , hollow reed makes for an unforgettable two hours . 
2	the handsome and smiling son , christian , played in a highly nuanced and masterful performance by ulrich thomsen , has no intention of delivering the speech the guests expect . how shocked are the assembled listeners ? the celebration is a marvelously inventive piece of filmmaking by director thomas vinterberg , a signer of the " dogme 95 , " whose seal solemnly graces the opening like a huge good housekeeping seal of approval . among the list of proscribed techniques are the use of artificial sounds , sets , locations and lighting . most notably , all cameras must be handheld . and the director must remain uncredited . it gets even more ludicrous in that the press kit contains the director's " confession " to every time his broke his vows . shocking . shocking . as silly as all of this sounds , it works beautifully , and i am not making any of it up . this further enhances the mystery . every member of the family seems in constant danger of violent eruption although fewer outbursts occur than one might expect . the richly textured story twists and turns until it seems to have painted itself into a corner where only a cliched ending is possible . then , viola , pulling a rabbit out of the celluloid hat , it comes up with a completely fresh and satisfying resolution . the celebration runs 1 : 45 . the film is in danish with english subtitles . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , mild violence and brief dope smoking and would be acceptable for older and mature teens . 
0	the relentless preachiness engaged in by red corner is the sort of approach that makes fire-and-brimstone sermons seem subtle . if this was the film's only weakness , it might be forgivable , but director jon avnet's latest effort is an all-around stinker . pull almost any word out of a negative pool of adjectives and you'll have an accurate description of red corner : dumb , boring , painful , laughable , idiotic , moronic , inane , bad , etc . occasional scenes are almost salvaged by the effective performance of little-known actress bai ling , but , ultimately , her solid portrayal of a chinese defense attorney gets lost amidst so much tripe . red corner is easily one of the year's worst big-budget motion pictures . american movie-goers suckered into seeing red corner should be equally outraged . gere's lackluster performance is one of the reasons why the film is close to unwatchable . he vacillates between scenery-chewing and wooden displays that would make steven seagal proud , and his delivery of robert king and ron koslow's ripe dialogue is often so overwrought that it's impossible to stifle a snicker . truthfully , the chinese have little to worry about -- no one could possibly take this film seriously . in the past , with movies like fried green tomatoes , director jon avnet has successfully navigated the tricky line between drama and manipulation . here , he fails utterly . there isn't a dramatic moment in red corner that rings true -- not moore's sad family history , his " courageous " moral stance in defense of yuelin , nor the predictably over-the-top climactic court sequences . for good measure , there's also one of the silliest foot chases in recent memory , with a handcuffed moore leaping from rooftop to rooftop while half the beijing police force inexplicably fails to catch up to him . the heroes in red corner are few and far between . from time-to-time , red corner falls into the " so bad it's enjoyable " category , but the movie is much too long to be more than fitfully engaging for connoisseurs of awful films . those hoping for an intelligent expose of the chinese legal system will likewise be disappointed -- the movie's political agenda is obvious , but not effectively presented . maybe somewhere , buried deep under layers of dross , there's the kernel of an interesting story in red corner . but what reaches the screen is so irredeemable that it deserves to be consigned to the darkest , most obscure shelves of the local video store . " for me , the cinema is not a slice of life , but a piece of cake . " 
1	certain holidays have a greater appeal for film makers than others . alas , thanksgiving has not enjoyed the same cinematic exposure . aside from planes , trains , and automobiles , few turkey day pictures leap to mind . so the field is ripe for a prime entry . unfortunately , this film ends up more like stuffing than meat . as dramatic comedies go , home for the holidays is highly uneven . in general , the humor works pretty well , even if it is often of the cruel sort . foster's film offers its fair share of laughs , although most come at the expense of " easy mark " characters . dramatically , however , the movie is only a step up from a flop . it's difficult connecting with these oddball personalities , who all seem like refugees from david lynch's version of middle america . and , with no emotional link , who really cares whether one person or another overcomes their problems ? with the exception of robert downey jr ( chaplin ) , who spends the whole movie over-the-top , the acting is fine . the problem is , most of these characters are written as offbeat weirdos just for the sake of having a bunch of oddballs . take a look at nora ephron's mixed nuts to see what a mistake that is . also , so much effort is put into distancing the audience from the film's population ( so the jokes won't seem too mean-spirited ) that when we're required to sympathize with them for dramatic purposes , it doesn't work . the film's solution is to give her a love interest , even though there's no obvious chemistry between hunter and mcdermott . in the end , we could care less whether they get together . and that's the problem with most of home for the holidays--we don't care enough about what's happening . aside from a few effective , low-key scenes , the movie doesn't involve the viewer . if it's all the same , one holiday is more than enough with this group . 
0	actually , that isn't even close to the worst . the reality is much more horrific . hers is the only performance in i know what you did last summer with any depth . in a scene lifted straight out of scream -- they share the same screenwriter , kevin williamson -- the kids try to out-scare each other with diabolical stories . to their credit , their story telling has more intensity that the movie itself . it is in this sequence that the four actors come most alive . in the rest of the film their parts are relegated to caricature . the story alternates between a traditional slasher film and a whodunit . john debney's heavy music overwhelms every scene with reminders to be frightened . a few more surprises would have been welcome in this putative horror show . the very last scene of the film , although the most predictable , manages to be the scariest . although a handsome film , thanks to denis crossan's cinematography , i know what you did last summer is a goose-bumps-free horror show with little fresh material and nothing to recommend its viewing . i know what you did last summer runs 1 : 40 . it is rated r for profanity and gory violence including people being gutted with a hook . the show would be fine for teenagers used to such horror pictures . i give this one thumbs down and * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . review written on : october 15 , 1997 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	the most depressing thing about ripe is that you can spot the core of emotional honesty buried beneath the layers of lurid melodrama and clunky symbolism . while male coming-of-age stories litter the film landscape like lost world ticket stubs on a multiplex floor , film-makers appear far more uncomfortable with tackling the sexual awakening of girls . writer/director ogrodinik opted to frame ripe as a sort of surreal cautionary tale , a kids-like warning on the perils of unsupervised youth . there is an absurdity to the things the girls get away with , from shoplifting to wandering through an ammunition shed , but that absurdity is probably part of ogrodnik's point . if anything , ripe may be a feature length public service message on the importance of sex education . it is here that the surrealism and metaphorical heavy-handedness squash ripe like a rotting pomegranate . do impressive work with extremely difficult material , but it is not enough to create characters which are written as types . nothing in ripe feels authentic ; it is a parade of numbingly obvious fore-shadowing and ridiculous situations which shift the emphasis from sensitive observation to spectacle . this shift lends an unnecessary sleaziness to scenes of masturbation and loss of virginity which might have been effective if the situations felt natural . the shock value and controversy of ripe may be good for box office , but they're bad for narrative truth . a less self-consciously " provocative " ripe could have been the kind of honest drama which a mother and daughter could share and learn from together . instead , this ripe will likely become more popular at the corner video store with middle-aged men in trenchcoats . 
1	so what kind of movies can a superstar make ? let me confess . i am a big arnold schwarzenegger fan . his shows are bursting with energy , and there is rarely a dull moment . even in the films of his of which that i have not been fond , junior comes to mind , he is interesting nevertheless . so it is with jingle all the way . this is a horribly flawed film , being needlessly mean-spirited , but it does have arnold , and he is fun to watch in it . nevertheless , i need to warn parents upfront that there are many messages in the film of which you may not approve . most are introduced in a spirit of humor , but young kids may not appreciate the difference . " don't forget . it seems that all the kids are getting them this christmas and " whoever doesn't is going to be a real loser . " those of us with young kids will identify with this toy obsession . those without will probably think this part of the film is little more than a plot device . set in a cold suburban landscape -- a snowy twin cities locale , the cold is a metaphor for the film's bleak humor . jingle all the way has more fistfights and hitting people than any kid's show i have seen in a long , long time . howard even slugs the poor , defenseless reindeer . it seems , " they use subliminal messages to suck kids' minds out . " this leads to the most distasteful fight in the show . howard tries to punch out scores of jolly olde st . nicks . while all the misery is unfolding on the screen , the music is playing happy tunes like " i'll be home for christmas " to remind you that this is supposed to be a comedy . we all laughed a lot , but i wonder how much of it was nervous laughter . both arnold and sinbad are amusing . the problem is that the reasons for the humor are troubling . as he says , " i work for the post office so i'm not stable . " winning in the category for worst advice given in any kid's movie this year is that by ted's son to jamie . did wonders for my dad . " granted it is in a nightmare sequence , but still . the show ends very well , and if you stay through all the credits , the movie continues with one last joke . jingle all the way is a pathetic film that manages to be entertaining nevertheless , and one whose high energy makes it hard to dislike no matter how much you disagree with its messages . a guilty pleasure for its viewers . for believers of the hollywood conspiracy to sap the morals of our youth theory , this picture is the one for them . it will seem to vindicate their assertions . jingle all the way runs just 1 : 29 . for a movie rated just pg , it stretches the limits with lines including " what the hell " and " you sorry ass . " there is no sex or nudity , but the mean time between fights is about three minutes . i liked this show more than i'd care to admit , but i can't recommend any kid's film that is so mean spirited . he gives it six thumbs up and says it would be fine for kids six and up -- to which i would add , at least . i give the picture a reluctant * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	late in 54 , the latest movie about the death of disco , there is a revealing scene . the dialog is as dull as the costumes are flashy . ryan phillippe , unfortunately , gets the pretty boy look right but nothing else . the casting of such a weak lead is one of the film's many problems . myers , whose sole expression in the picture is a frozen toothy grin , should stick to comedy . he demonstrates no emotional range as a dramatic actor . in the most embarrassing scene for myers , steve , stoned out of his mind , propositions a very reluctant , heterosexual busboy . no one objects , although the clap turns out to be one of this promiscuity's downsides . when two movies are released in the same year about the same topic , comparisons are inevitably made . whit stillman's the last days of disco is full of fascinating characters and an intriguing story . the script is so richly textured that it takes at least two viewings to ponder and laugh at all of its subtly humorous dialog . if you've seen stillman's film , there is no reason to see 54 . and if you haven't , pass on 54 and wait until the last days of disco makes its way to video . it is rated r for sex , nudity , profanity , and pervasive drug usage . the film would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are older and mature . 
2	u . s . availability : limited release spring 1995 running length : 1 : 33 mpaa classification : no rating ( mature themes ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 85 : 1 cast : alia , liu peiqi , ge zhijun , zhang haiyan director : zhou xiaowen producers : chen kumming and jimmy tan screenplay : lang yun cinematography : lu gengxin music : zhou xiaowen u . s . distributor : arrow releasing in chinese with subtitles in the course of cinematic history , there have been many great quests : searches for the holy grail , the ark of the covenant , the true nature of humankind , the essence of god , and , during this film from chinese director zhou xiaowen , a 29-inch television . on the road , the two become lovers , but theirs isn't exactly one of the great screen romances . the overall theme of ermo echoes a simple truism : it's often better wanting than having . afterwards , how much of that will be replaced by apathy ? zhou is certainly criticizing materialism here , but only in the larger context of examining how we define meaning in our lives . as was the case in qui ju , we are presented with a vivid contrast between rural and urban china . however , where zhang's film tended to meander , ermo stays focused , and the interaction between blindman and ermo presents a sexual element absent from the earlier movie . an expert at capturing subtle mannerisms , alia possesses the same kind of screen presence exhibited by gong li . although there's nothing wrong with her delivery of dialogue , the actress' facial expressions are her greatest asset . ermo is not an exceptionally well-written character , but alia does an excellent job of breathing life into her . ermo is certainly on less ambitious footing than the recent string of grand historical epics coming from china . in many ways , this is refreshing , as the simpler story gives the viewer a different view of chinese culture . and , although the message of ermo is presented seriously , zhou isn't above having a little fun , and his lighter touch is one of the most refreshing elements of this enjoyable little drama . 
2	gould became one of the world's most renowned classical performers , making more than 60 recordings , as well as working in the fields of publishing , conducting , radio and television broadcasting , and scoring feature films . his version of bach's " goldberg variations " is definitive , and was included as one of the samples of humanity's best on both voyager spacecraft . thirty-two short films about glenn gould presents a unique , impressionistic look at the offbeat musician . there is no way of putting gould in one box . the film gives the viewer 32 impressions of him . i didn't want to reduce him to one dimension . " give girard credit for understanding his subject and the best method of portraying him . the character and personality of glenn gould come across brilliantly in this film . while nothing ninety-three minutes in length can hope to express all the facets of a man of gould's depth , glimpses of elements lead to an understanding of the whole . there are indeed 32 episodes , ranging in length from under one minute to just over six . some of the episodes are funny ; some are poignant . colm feore captures gould perfectly , bringing his energy and restlessness , as well as his quiet aloofness , to the screen . because of the unusual nature of thirty-two short films about glenn gould , it's easy to forget that we're watching an actor play gould , not the man himself , and feore does nothing to spoil the illusion . in " lake simcoe " , one of the movie's first segments , gould states , " i'm fortunate to have been brought up in an environment where music was always present . " the same can be said of thirty-two short films , where gould's recordings form a backdrop to nearly every scene . this is a movie to be savored by those who are familiar with the work of glenn gould , and an opportunity for those who aren't to explore the essence of a rare musical genius . it's an eclectic film , and an astonishing portrait . 
2	imaginative director david fincher , who created last year's crime and terror masterpiece , seven , takes a completely different approach with the game . whereas seven was non-stop , in-your-face action and gore , the game is meticulously drawn with a pacing that is more subdued that one expects in a thriller . the carefully written script by john d . brancato , michael ferris , and andrew kevin walker uses the entire first hour to completely setup the plot . most thrillers would have gotten down to business and had the audience on the edge of their seats in the first fifteen minutes . although mainly a deficiency , this slow opening technique does heighten the film's psychological warfare with nicholas and by extension , the audience . the game is not a particularly violent film , but one that plays tricks with the mind . miss your numbers by a few pennies , and you're on the street . ( as an in-joke , the movie has crs used as the initials for a variety of clandestine businesses associated with the company . ) " think of it as a great vacation , except you don't go to it , it comes to you . " at this point the normally smug and confident nicholas can only guess what will happen . the best part of the story is that the audience also doesn't know either who is a crs employee and who isn't . just when you're sure you've got it figured out , you don't . the multi-part ending is easily the film's best part . although it is easy to convince oneself after the fact that you guessed it all along , the reality is that few people will be able guess half of the twists and turns in advance . although this is michael douglas's show , her more limited screen time is suitably confusing and intriguing . " i don't care about the money , " he declares , ready to risk it all . " i'm pulling back the curtain . the engrossed audience feels the same way . fincher ratchets up the tension in the last hour and redeems the picture's all too slow beginning . with harris savides's dark and brooding cinematography even the slow parts are never boring . after watching the game , we at least know the downside of making too much money -- it can be downright dangerous . it is rated r for profanity and psychological terror . the film would be fine for teenagers . i recommend the picture to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	writer/director j . s . it's a movie in which one of the vampires is referred to as a " penthouse pet from hell . " since people can be low on substances from potassium to iron , perhaps they can also have a sleaze deficiency . if you're suffering from such a malady , the forsaken might be just the tonic for you . not going for b-movie parody as scary movie wisely did , the forsaken takes itself quite seriously , which is a big mistake . watching it isn't so much disgusting as it is just a colossal waste of time . the latter is undoubtedly better than the forsaken . you guessed it -- one of them flashes sean for no apparent reason other than the director told her to . as soon as the vampires arrive -- you don't have to wait long -- we learn that nick is a " hunter . " trust me , you won't care . the only thing that you'll care about will be found on the dial of your watch . " do you make a lot of money in the movie biz ? " let's hope that movies that waste our time and money like the forsaken won't make much at all . let's not encourage the studios to make such trash . it is rated r for strong violence/gore , language and sexuality and would be acceptable for older teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
0	with kelsey grammer in command of the uss stingray , you can be sure that this isn't a drama . unfortunately , it's not much of a comedy , either . there are occasional laughs , but , as with most movies that think they're funnier than they actually are , most of the jokes fall flat . what we're left with is the tired , overused storyline of a bunch of mismatched underdogs coming together as a team in time to overcome their adversaries . the best thing about down periscope ( in fact , just about the only good thing ) is kelsey grammer's relaxed performance . although best known for his role as tv's frasier , grammer exhibits a big screen presence . he doesn't appear to be a great actor , but , unlike so many stars making the tv-to-movie switch , his likability doesn't get lost in the transition . at stake for dodge is his future in the navy -- if he succeeds , he gets a permanent command ; if he fails , he gets a desk job . there's a lot more energy in this four-minute segment than in the hour-and-a-half that precedes it . there are quite a few submarine movies available -- certainly enough to provide material for a decent satire . unfortunately , down periscope is more interested in regurgitating formulas that we've seen literally dozens of times before . other than briefly lampooning the xo's mutiny from crimson tide , this picture fires duds , relying on cheap sex jokes and slapstick gags to garner laughs . 
0	director : peter hyams . mpaa rating : r ( graphic violence , profanity ) running time : 110 minutes . don't be misled by advertising which suggests that the relic is some sort of sublimely spooky thriller , because it is nothing of the kind . if you sit through the film long enough ( and several people at the screening i attended threw in the towel somewhere before the end of the third reel ) , you many begin to wonder if you have stumbled through a time warp back to the early 1980s , when horror films were an excuse to play " can you top this " with graphic depictions of murders . for all its ostensibly classy trappings , the relic is simply a mad slasher film with a monster instead of a maniac , as relentlessly violent and unpleasant as any film in recent memory . if you saw wes craven's current horror homage/satire scream , you are acquainted with the " rules " of horror films ; if you didn't see scream , you can learn most of them from the relic . splitting up a group is also a sure sign of carnage to come , especially if one person alone is carrying a flashlight or investigating any sort of strange noise . you can also count on at least one startled animal to provide a gratuitous shock to the system , to be followed closely by something genuinely horrifying . these elements are familiar for some bad reasons -- usually laziness -- but also for the good reason that , when put to good use , they can be part of a truly tense film . the original alien was a classic bug hunt crafted with such style by ridley scott that everything old seemed new again . peter hyams pretends to be interested in that kind of primal chiller , but he has neither the patience nor the skill for it . the multi-attributed script tosses personality quirks at its character hoping something might stick , but only audra lindley as an acerbic coroner seems remotely human . more often the script resorts to exposition enhancers like the two kids who turn up to ask what miller's character does for a living ( there's nothing like turning a screenplay into a catechism to make sure no one is confused ) . hyams , who has always acted as his own cinematographer , shoots everything with as little light as possible , clearly under the impression that atmosphere can be manipulated with a dimmer switch ; meanwhile , the last half of the relic is edited with a gross disregard for anything resembling building tension . the relic just gets louder , darker and more hectic with each passing minute , as hyams repeatedly confuses murky with moody . there is also something terribly dishonest about the way the relic is shot , because there is virtually nothing creepy about it . there are easily a dozen severed heads which roll through the 110 minutes of the relic , and people are torn apart with such regularity during the last 50 minutes that it no longer matters how quickly the light shines on the corpse or how rapid the edit is . at that point , the relic becomes a turkey shoot where so many anonymous individuals are killed that the survival of the two main protagonists doesn't matter . the relic is an ugly and stupid film , which is bad enough . it also proves to be a terribly dehumanizing one . 
0	there's a fundamental flaw in mr . wrong's premise . this is a romantic comedy parody , but how can you satirize something that's a comedy to begin with ? if this motion picture is an example , not only can't it be done , but the result is downright ugly . every year , there are handful of movies that aren't remotely funny , and mr . wrong has the dubious distinction of falling into that category . try as it might with its sophomoric humor and dumb one-liners , this film never got so much as a chuckle out of me . she has no discernible acting ability , no screen presence , and she's certainly not funny ( at least not in this context ) . in fact , the best adjective to describe degeneres is irritating . and since she's in almost every scene of mr . wrong , that makes for a very long ninety-two minutes . not even a series of unusual cameos can save mr . despite being way over the top , the normally-delightful joan cusack is simply dreary as the only character in the film more obsessed than whitman . the idea behind mr . wrong is to set up a typical romantic comedy scenario , then , twisting events in the most bizarre fashion imaginable , lampoon the genre for all it's worth . even with mr . nice guy , bill pullman ( sleepless in seattle , while you were sleeping ) , playing off his own reputation , the movie misfires in a big way . the choppy script substitutes stale , unimaginative material for clever , biting wit . in its failed attempt to launch an acid attack on overly sweet romances , mr . 
1	mpaa rating : pg ( mild profanity ) running time : 121 minutes . it won't be difficult for many viewers to accept denzel washington as a character sent straight from heaven . . . particularly female viewers . washington has been a regular on " sexiest man " lists , dazzling audiences with his confident smile while building an impressive body of work in roles characterized by intensity , integrity and -- frequently -- inscrutability . yet for all his obvious talent and good looks , he has often seemed unapproachable on screen , so cool that he fails to be warm . the preacher's wife comes as a welcome addition to washington's resume , a somewhat predictable holiday confection buoyed by washington's engaging lead performance . it is equally natural to expect a certain amount of holy-rolling in such an effort , but the preacher's wife does a fairly good job of walking the fine line between sincere and sanctimonious . penny marshall ( big , awakenings ) has shown herself to be that rare contemporary director who can make a " feel-good " film which doesn't leave you feeling insulted , and she generally avoids saccharine overload . the major problem with the preacher's wife is the same problem which has characterized most of marshall's films : it's just too long . her movies have a tendency to run out of gas with a lot of film left to run , and the preacher's wife could have benefited from plenty of additional editing . much of it could have come from whitney houston's performance , which consists largely of finding reasons to break into song like elvis presley in one of his carefully crafted vehicles . houston certainly has a spectacular voice , and it is nice to hear her using it for gospel standards rather than dreary ballads , but half a dozen musical numbers simply pushes the limit and pads the running time . little justin pierre edmond should have been another strong candidate for the editor's knife ; the button-cute rascal is one of the worst child actors i have seen on screen in years . thankfully , denzel washington is on hand to provide a jolt whenever the preacher's wife needs it most . his first appearance may be a shock to those who know him best as serious , determined characters in films like malcolm x , crimson tide and courage under fire : dropped from the sky into the snow , looking decidedly dapper in a grey suit , hat and topcoat , washington's dudley proceeds to celebrate his return to corporeal form by spinning around on the ground like one of the three stooges . his innocence and earnestness are thoroughly charming , and his scenes with courtney b . vance ( effective as the real principal character of the story ) have a particular appeal . if there isn't much chemistry between washington and houston , well , that's not really the point of the preacher's wife . besides , denzel washington is a chemical reaction all by himself , and it is a pleasure to see that he can sparkle as well as he smolders . 
2	perceptive is the best single word i can come up with to describe the ice storm , ang lee's near-masterpiece that deconstructs the american family . for , although the film is provocative , entertaining , and impeccably crafted , its greatest strength is its ability to convey truths that lie deep beneath the surface . the ice storm is perceptive about people , relationships , and human nature , and there's not a single moment in the entire 112 minute running length that rings false . then , in 1994 , lee was selected to helm emma thompson's adaptation of jane austen's sense and sensibility . the film , which was released in 1995 , earned multiple academy award nominations and ensured that lee would never again be relegated to obscurity . for his followup to sense , lee chose the ice storm , and the accomplished result points to a director who has matured in every way . the hood family , like so many others of the time , is dysfunctional , even though it doesn't appear to be . it's a coming of age tale that shows how the discoveries and development of the parents parallel those of their children , and suggests that age doesn't always equate to understanding . sexually and socially , everyone in this film is groping for answers , whether their age is fourteen or forty . in fact , it could be argued that the teenagers have a clearer and healthier approach to sexuality than their elders . more often than not , the children in the ice storm are open about what they want . the adults , on the other hand , feel the need to resort to deception and wife-swapping games to achieve the same ends . not only is the storm crucial to the film's resolution , but its vivid presentation makes it almost a character in its own right as it coats trees , power lines , and streets with ice and turns the world into a beautiful-but-deadly place . ( from a technical standpoint , it's amazing to note that lee created the winter wonderland without any help from mother nature -- as credible as everything looks , none of the ice is real . ) every character in this film is interesting , and it's a pleasure to spend time with each of them . no one here is perfect , and we're presented with finely-detailed portraits of flesh-and-blood human beings , with their strengths and weaknesses laid bare . it's amazing how real these characters are , and how profoundly engrossing such a simple story can be . however , for those of us who lived through that era , there are plenty of familiar images and items . some , like the bellbottoms , wide-collared shirts , and gas- guzzling cars , are expected . others , like the bubble umbrella and the anti-pollution tv spot featuring a crying native american , show that lee was willing to take things to another level of detail . while it's true that the ice storm may not represent the reality of the '70s , it effectively fits our memories of the time . the lead performances are all terrific . kevin kline elicits feelings of sympathy and scorn for the loutish ben . tobey maguire is believable as the kind of guy that girls always see as the brotherly type . as expected , ricci doesn't let us down -- her interpretation of wendy is knowing , intense , and nuanced . i have heard complaints that the trailer for the ice storm makes the film look uninvolving . if that's true , it does this fine motion picture a great disservice . then again , it's always difficult to effectively represent a drama using two minutes of clips . the ice storm's impact cannot be conveyed in such a short span -- this is a movie that needs to be seen in its entirety . the experience will be more than worth the investment in time . the ice storm is at times funny , poignant , moving , and sensitive -- but , no matter what , it's always perceptive . " the cinema is not an art which films life : the cinema is something between art and life . unlike painting and literature , the cinema both gives to life and takes from it . . . " - jean-luc godard 
2	critics disagree . when i see a movie at the press screening , i have no idea how other critics will react other than listening to their laughter or noticing their body language . usually i can guess the reaction of the reviewers at large . for some shows i can sense that i will agree with the majority and others that i will not , but with the ghost and the darkness , which i saw after it opened to the public , i was quite pleasantly surprised . other than gene siskel , the other critics absolutely detested the film . not only did i like it , i frankly can not understand why they didn't too . oh well , as i said , critics disagree . even the most impossible parts of the story really happened . " beaumont warns him that , " i am a monster . my only pleasure is tormenting those who work for me . " moreau , redeems himself here . his performance , and the quite different but equally effective one by michael douglas as legendary big game hunter charles remington , are compelling and complex . beaumont makes a visit and is not pleased . he informs john that , " i don't care about the thirty dead . i care about my knighthood . " i am the devil . " i found it refreshing that director stephen hopkins and writer william goldman could fashion a terrifying tale out of nothing more than a couple of lions . in a year of fifteen mile wide flying saucers , i like seeing filmmakers going back to first principles and using basic ingredients to craft real tension . besides the two leads , whom i thoroughly enjoyed watching , one serious ( kilmer ) and the other funny ( douglas ) , the rest of the cast was quite good , and goldman gave each character his own little story . the atmospheric images are a contrast of ones of fog , mist , and haze followed by ones of the great and bright african sun . atmosphere is easy , terror is harder . if you like movie music , it might be worth buying the cd . it has lots of french horns and kettle drums to get your adrenaline pumping . it is full of low rumbling rhythms best heard in a theater with a high quality sound system . there is gore in the film , but it is never gratuitous . when a lion attacks a human , it is not a pretty sight , but i thought hopkins stuck correctly to the thriller aspects and away from the pure shock value . as the ending credits were rolling i found myself with my mouth open thinking " wow . " the film is rated r for the animal violence . there is no sex or nudity and the language is pretty mild . the film would be fine for any teenager and those younger who can handle the fear . i had a great time at the ghost and the darkness , and i suspect you will too so i recommend it and award it * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 15 , 1996 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	this time out , he's attempting to do much the same thing with fairy tales . or , more precisely , with one fairy tale -- that of " cinderella . " only here , instead of glass slippers , horse-drawn carriages , and prince charming , we have stiletto heels , rolls royces , and a genial , terminally ill gent played by oscar winner martin landau . b . a . p . s . ( which stands for " black american princesses " ) is a lightweight , minimally entertaining piece which represents a marginal improvement over the meteor man . the film is severely flawed ( due primarily to a shocking lack of imagination and creativity ) , but it is more watchable than this year's other would-be modern-day fairy tale , fran drescher's awful the beautician and the beast . in b . a . p . s . , at least some of the jokes are funny and the serious moments aren't galling . the premise of this film is , as you might expect , rather thin . while i realize that the plot of b . a . p . s . is designed as nothing more than a frame for jokes and gags , it still annoys me when any film proceeds along such dull and predictable lines . would it have been that difficult to inject something new or moderately adventurous into the film ? instead , what we get is a double variation of the fish out of water scenario folded into the " cinderella " envelope . we've seen it all before . at least the cast is mostly solid . martin landau's abilities are sorely wasted here , but the other three principals are used to good effect . halle berry , despite the distracting hair color , is her usual affable self , making nisi a great deal more likable than she probably was on paper . the humor in the manley-goes- shopping-for-rap-cds is due entirely to richardson's no-nonsense performance . townsend elected to shoot the entire film using a soft focus technique that creates an omnipresent glow . while this emphasizes the fairy tale quality of the story , it does little to hide the deficiencies of troy beyer's flimsy script . an interesting cast is only half the battle , and , from the moment he chose such a derivative screenplay , the director lost the other half . is go for cheap , easy laughs ( the aforementioned bidet scene being a good example of this ) . paying movie-goers deserve more , especially from someone who has previously shown signs of genuine comic aptitude . 
0	with certain movies , it's possible to tell immediately that you're watching something memorably bad . with others , you have to wait a little longer . in bad moon , it takes approximately three minutes . the first shot -- a stunning widescreen view of a mountainscape , complete with mist-shrouded jungle -- is actually quite impressive . it's what happens shortly thereafter that makes it apparent how low the standards of quality are on this production . after a brief sex scene ( is it possible to have a horror film without at least a little bare female flesh ? ) , we're treated to our first view of a werewolf . at that supposedly-chilling moment , i started laughing so hard that i nearly fell out of my chair . in this era of morphing , cgi , and other futuristic special effects , bad moon put someone into an exceptionally cheesy-looking wolf man suit . i spent a good portion of the rest of the film looking for the zipper . it's this kind of movie that somehow restores one's faith in hollywood -- they can still make movies that are so completely awful that , on a masochistic level , they're a riot to watch . people occasionally ask me why i venture into films that i fully expect to be bad ; this is the reason . and , as an added bonus , bad moon doesn't drag its hideousness out to the point where it becomes unbearable . at just eighty minutes ( seventy-five if you ignore the end credits ) , it's over before the urge to walk out becomes irresistible . there are a few points i'd like to raise about this movie . first of all , even though ted claims that it doesn't take a full moon to force the transformation of a real werewolf , in this film , the moon is always full . on at least three consecutive nights , we're shown shots of it , hanging in the sky , emerging from behind clouds , full and round . i would think such a bizarre astronomical event would cause far more interest than the comparatively mundane occurrence of a man changing into a werewolf . not a bad idea , right ? if he still has the keys , then why doesn't he use them as a werewolf ? somehow , i don't think we're supposed to think about this . finally , it's pretty amazing that on the one morning ted is spending some quality time with brett and janet , a werewolf movie just happens to be on tv . the actors probably shouldn't have played their roles quite so solemnly . a little more tongue-in-cheek would have improved the tone immeasurably . then again , almost anything would have accomplished that aim . i'm not sure why bad moon didn't go straight to video . don't worry , though , if you're planning to subject yourself to it in that medium -- it will arrive there faster than a speeding bullet , silver or otherwise . 
0	perhaps her parents should have studied the script by jeff rothberg ( the amazing panda adventure ) to see if it contained more than some cute magic tricks - it doesn't . probably more apropos would have been for them to view director michael ritchie's collection of films including such forgettable ones as his last three , the fantasticks , cops and robbersons and the scout . ritchie spends all of his creative energy in a simple wish in clever staging of the wishes , and allocates no time for directing the acting . if turner and short have insulted their viewing public with more pathetic acting in other movies , the names of the films do not come to mind . a simple wish has one of the most inauspicious beginnings on record . for five long and tedious minutes , short demonstrates how to overact while doing slapstick . ops , big mistake . prophetically , anabel says at one point , " this stinks . " to which murray concurs , " i know , it's bad . " and how . it is rated pg for perhaps a few bad words that i missed . the show would be acceptable for all ages . my son jeffrey , age 8 , thought the show was " excellent , " and his buddy matthew , age 8 , said that the film " goes up there among my favorites . " i found most of the film pathetic so i give it thumbs down . for the imaginative wishes and for poor mara wilson's nice performance in a terrible picture , i give it * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	move over , silence of the lambs ! with its rare mixture of intelligent plotting , flawless acting , and start-to-finish tension , copycat is a force to be reckoned with--hopefully both at the box office and when oscars are given out next spring . it amazes me that an entry from this genre , which is normally known for pointless gore and contrived storylines ( see--or rather don't see--don't talk to strangers ) , has turned out a motion picture this keen and complex . it's a difficult task to perfect this sort of story . there are so many areas where the script can fail that it's astounding how seamlessly copycat overcomes all obstacles . there are no stupid characters , contrived resolutions , or deus ex machinas . and the movie doesn't play games with the villain's identity--we aren't left wondering whether he's one of the supposed " good guys . " like seven , copycat isn't concerned with whodunnit , but why they did it and how they will strike next . in contrast to the brad pitt/morgan freeman movie , however , this picture has a rock-solid storyline with no gaping holes in logic . i've never been a big fan of sigourney weaver , but what she accomplishes here is impressive . i can't help wonder how much better death and the maiden would have been had she turned in a similar caliber performance there . from the opening scene in copycat , weaver has a good sense of dr . hudson , and she holds onto the character through all the emotional ups and downs . this is doubtlessly the actresses' best work to date . strong-willed , tough , and extremely competent , her mj monahan is the kind of smart , multi-layered role actors relish , and hunter is on target with her portrayal . this is a contained , dynamic performance without a hint of overacting . in many ways , what the actress does here exceeds what she managed in jane campion's new zealand period drama . the supporting cast is solid . dermot mulroney projects a likable cockiness as monahan's partner . the worst thing that can happen in a movie like this is for the characters to be a step behind the audience . that's not the case in copycat , where the viewer is in synch with what's occurring on-screen . tension and atmosphere are excellent , and director jon amiel pays careful attention to detail . parts of this film are frightening , and will have many viewers either on the edge of their seat or hiding their eyes . and , unlike in many so-called thrillers , the ending is not a let- down . comparisons with silence of the lambs are inevitable , but this movie is no mere copycat of jonathan demme's 1991 feature--it's a well-crafted improvement . 
2	first , let me be clear . director mike figgis's mr . jones ( 1993 ) , staring richard gere as mr . jones , is an extremely hard show to watch . think of it as paying $7 for a virtual reality game where you too can be a manic depressive and for two solid hours no less ! second , the ending is awful . actually , for this bit of ridiculousness , i do thank them somewhat . without it , the show was so intense it might have been totally unbearable . finally , the title is terrible . mr . jones sounds like a love story or a light comedy . now , why in my right mind ( no pun intended ) , would i recommend this show and give it a high rating ( * * * 1/2 ) ? first , gere performance , especially in his manic states , was pure academy award winning stuff . second , it forces you , albeit very painfully , to come to grips with what depression is and even more so what manic depression is . every time gere got into his manic state , you felt like you had just popped a bottle of speed . this is one of those show you think about again and again for years . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . review written on : october 28 , 1993 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	the wedding planner is a romantic comedy cut from the cloth of the hollywood studio zany comedies of the '50s . it reminded me most of " the father of the bride , " only it didn't have spencer tracy's assurances that everything would turn out ok , as the film looked real good for the first 70 minutes and then slid into tedium and then into a contrived ending ala " the graduate . " massimo is a manipulative clod , with a penchant for saying and doing the wrong thing , and is someone she never liked , even though he's not bad looking . upon the introduction of massimo into the story , the film loses its energy . but there should be no surprise how everything is resolved . it's a modestly successful romantic comedy , much like those old-fashioned fluff films of yesterday . it's ready made for an audience that applauds when two people who are meant for each other , wind up with each other no matter what . hollywood loves churning out stories like that because they're good box office and have mass appeal . this is one of those films , and if that's your poison , be my guest , you won't be disappointed by this one . the film's big joke is when jennifer is told she has a big neck , an obvious reference to jay leno's running gag about her big derri ? re . 
0	screenplay : e . max frye and topper lillien & carroll cartwright . director : marek kanievska . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( profanity , sexual situations , adult themes ) running time : 89 minutes . at the age of 75 , paul newman is still one of the sneakiest , most thoroughly professional actors in films . his manner is so relaxed and his charisma so undeniable that it's easy to forget how good he is at what he does ; if newman has ever mailed in a performance , i'd like to know what it was . i find it hard not to get enthused about a caper film like where the money is when i know that newman is in the lead role . after all , no actor has ever done a better job than newman of bringing life and charm to criminals ( butch cassidy & the sundance kid , cool hand luke ) , broken-down has-beens ( slap shot , the verdict ) and slick hustlers ( the sting , the color of money ) . world-weary intelligence fits him like spandex . it's my sad duty to report that there's more weary than world-weary to where the money is , though you can hardly blame newman for its failings . and it's a very , very stupid idea . where the money is , it should be reiterated , has a caper at its core -- an armored car heist executed by henry , carol and wayne . it's an effective enough centerpiece , but it has virtually nothing to do with the rest of the movie . in fact , while the heist sequence is far from breathtaking in its execution -- director marek kanievska appears to have a philosophical objection to making the film interesting to watch on a minute-to-minute basis -- it only makes the central issue of carol's mid-life crisis seem utterly inconsequential . there's nothing wrong with adding some character to a plot-driven caper structure , but that's not what where the money is does . it actually adds more plot -- in the form of wayne's jealous streak , carol's attempts to help free henry , etc . the film pretends it's character-based just long enough to distract from the main story , then ties up everything so quickly you wonder if there were people involved at all . the horrible consequence of this approach is that newman is almost completely wasted . it's not so much that his character spends the first twenty minutes with his face frozen into a rictus , but that no one seems to know what to do with him once henry does come to life . where the money is builds a charge of potential energy from his mere presence . it rarely , however , finds an effective way to release that energy . for the rest of the film he just waits for a reason to be there . it's hard to figure what he saw in the script , since where the money is theoretically is more about carol than it is about henry . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	flirting with disaster is a movie that constants flirts with disaster . it plays like a low budget experimental comedy where screenwriter and director david o . russell throws everything he can into the script as if this is his only chance ever to make a comedy . that film is a serious , moving , and shockingly frank look at incest , and is also a much better movie . some people incorrectly labelled that picture as a comedy . it wasn't . all of the above notwithstanding , flirting with disaster had enough big laughs that i did like it . when people ask me how i manage to take such great photographs , i tell them my secret is composition and quantity . russell used my later technique . if you put enough jokes in and you are raunchy and experimental enough , some are bound to hit the mark . a lot of the movie is in bad taste ; some jokes fall like a stone ; but , the ones that work are great . there are other examples that are hard to describe in a g rated review of an r rated movie . aren't we good enough parents ? " all children are forgiven . my favorite scene in the movie is an indescribable sight gag that happens after mel and tina almost get it on at a b & b where they are all staying . poor mary tyler moore is pathetic in the film and looks like she is suffering from extreme sleep depravation . george seagal is not much better , and they are both embarrassments . the other actors and actresses do fine , but nothing special . the relative success of the picture rises and falls with the undulations of the script . with lines like lily tomlin's , " we love you very much . if you were jeffrey dahlmer , we would still love you " or tony's , " do you mind if i take a look at your armpits ? i think armpits are the prettiest part of a woman's body , " the audience is in stitches . i am sad to report that a lot of the movie had me with my mouth hanging open going " huh ? " as many attempts were duds . there is no nudity or violence . i think the film would be okay for most teenagers , but no one younger . i hate to say it , but many parents in my audience brought kids from ages 4-10 years old . this bizarre show is not for everyone , but i liked it and am glad i saw it . if you like quirky sexual comedies , i recommend this film ; otherwise , don't waste your time . if you do go , stay through all of the credits and watch the even more bizarre outtakes . i give this funny , but highly uneven film * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	" i'm sorry little boy . i can't this sign this kind of card , " says the superrich athlete . certainly not for some kid , no matter how much the kid idolizes him . athletics is big business -- entertainment business . the big bucks comes from the advertisers and for them , you need a top notch agent . poor jerry . as he puts it , he is " great at friendship , bad at intimacy . that's my theme song . " but it gets worse . rod's motto is that , " it's not about love . it's about 'show me the money . ' " such are the headaches of single digit millionaires . the best acting in the show is by mohr . his performance is frighteningly believable . gooding gives a complex performance as an athlete trying to cope with instant wealth . viewers worth less than a million may have difficulty understanding rod's predicament , but gooding provides heart and style to the role . tom cruise's movies inevitably have a love angle . someone has to be there for the female members of the audience to identify with . he tries to make up for it by making lame jokes about not wanting to be like clarance thomas . jerry , remember , does not do that intimacy thing . lipnicki is a cloyingly sweet actor who began to get on my nerves . i also have a problem with a show that has young kids saying the f word even if it does get laughs . don't cry at the beginning of a date . cry at the end like i do . " the story , written by the director , has many good lines and is quite upbeat . although most of the twists are inevitable , the show never loses the audience's interest . this is a pointless subplot that only serves to stop what is otherwise a high energy movie . there is not a single good actress among the group , and their lines are all trite . kaminski even uses a handheld camera in documentary style in a failed attempt to add authenticity to the scenes . my favorite small part of the film is the sound effects . tom cruise is a highly talented star with sex appeal and a large group of fans . i do not think he has ever given a boring performance although too many of them have bordered on the superficial . like a class of kindergartners after a party , his manic characters have all the hyper-kinetic activity associated with sugar overload . only in interview with the vampire did i not like his acting . i am even one of the few people who liked him in far and away . so how is cruise's performance in jerry maguire ? he skims over the surface without ever touching the water . his creates a character that is enjoyable to watch , but one not worth caring about . as the star upon which the movie is build , the weakness of his work is the major disappointment of the film . his acting in the picture is interesting , but never as involving as it should be . overall jerry maguire is an enjoyable film , but far from a memorable one . jerry maguire runs too long at 2 : 15 . this is a comedy , not an epic . the film is rated r for sex , brief nudity , some profanity , dope smoking , but no violence . some will call football inherently violent , but i am not counting it as such . i had a good time at jerry maguire so i am recommending it and giving it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	topsy-turvy is not a bio-pic in the conventional sense of the term . it's a bio-pic in the mike leigh sense of the term , which may be redundant . however , it may not even be appropriate to call it a mike leigh film in the conventional sense of the term . one does not think of period pieces when one thinks of mike leigh , nor would one likely think of him as the ideal film-maker to look behind the scenes at the creation of gilbert & sullivan's " the mikado . " how would this fashioner of human drama approach the fashioning of light opera ? as it turns out , he does so with detail , detail and more detail -- occasionally to nerve-wracking excess . but the concept for " the mikado " is only the beginning of the arduous process of staging it . when topsy-turvy finally hits its stride , with gilbert's visit to the exposition , it's an extraordinarily entertaining piece of work . leigh dives into the pre-production process with gusto , exploring every possible element of a theater company's work . the rehearsal scene , in which gilbert attends to the details of pacing and the inconvenient absence of two actors , is hilarious even in its attention to the mundane ; a scene of gilbert using japanese women as advisors for cultural authenticity has a similarly unexpected charm . you know a film-maker is doing something write when he can wring comedy out of a wardrobe session , and drama out of whether or not a song will be cut from the production . it would be easy to embrace topsy-turvy unreservedly if leigh seemed to know what to cut from his own production . even at 160 minutes , the film never seems tedious ; it does , however , seem unnecessarily meandering . leigh also goes overboard in the inclusion of musical numbers , giving us full-scale recreations of at least a half-dozen songs from three different productions . while the inclusion of some gilbert and sullivan work would seem necessary as context , leigh takes too much liberty with the length and breadth of his musical interludes . by the end of topsy-turvy , you may feel you've sat through " princess aida " and " the mikado " in their entirety . in most films , the extra weight would probably have sunk the whole endeavor . blessedly , topsy-turvy is that rare film that gets better with every passing minute , building to that enchanting final hour of preparation for production . still more blessedly , leigh has put together another superb cast to give the scenes as much bite as possible , including leigh veterans like alison steadman ( life is sweet ) and timothy spall ( secrets & lies ) . broadbent's gilbert has a bit more to work with -- and hence the showier part -- but corduner's more amiable , artistic integrity-bound sullivan is a delight as well . leigh covers a lot of ground in topsy-turvy -- perhaps , ultimately , too much -- but he has the good sense to come back around to the good stuff . the result is a biography as singular as leigh himself : messy , insightful and , of course , very human . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	leo tolstoy's anna karenina , bernard rose's ( immortal beloved ) attempt to bring the great russian novel to the screen , is , in its own way , as flawed and unsuccessful as its illustrious predecessors . as an unabashed fan of the novel , i have never been impressed by hollywood's tepid attempts to film it . even with luminaries like greta garbo and vivien leigh in the title role , the stripped-down story has barely resembled its inspiration , looking instead like an overplotted , costume melodrama . anna karenina is not unfilmable ( a 10-part bbc mini-series made during the '70s was quite good ) , but , given the time constraints of a theatrical feature , it's next-to-impossible to make an effective adaptation . rose's brave-but-disappointing attempt reinforces this belief . the storyline for anna karenina is widely-known , so i won't spend much time recapping it here . rose's boldest stroke in this version is to leave in the kitty/levin subplot , rather than excising it ( which is what happens in most adaptations ) . while retaining levin's story provides the overall tale with greater balance and depth , it eats up valuable time and dilutes the focus . what works in the book doesn't necessarily succeed on screen , and the result is a choppy and uneven motion picture . character development is almost nonexistent as time pressure forces rose to push on without giving the audience an opportunity to digest what's happening or get into the protagonists' heads . there are times when anna karenina seems not like a filmed version of the cliffnotes , but of the abridged cliffnotes . i have several casting quibbles , as well . french actress sophie marceau ( braveheart ) is a cool , regal beauty -- not the right type at all to play the hot-blooded , passionate anna . marceau is a good actress , but she's wrong for this role , and her icy rendering of anna leaves viewers largely unconcerned about the fate of the character . kirshner's north american accent is out- of-place , and molina never properly captures levin's deep-rooted melancholy . despite the problems with story , characterization , and acting , anna karenina is far from a complete bust . visually , it's nothing less than stunning ( with outside locations filmed in russia ) -- the most eye- catching motion picture since kenneth branagh's hamlet . ballroom interiors , landscapes , and even close-ups of faces leave the viewer entranced . at one point during the movie , when karenin remarks , " there's so much splendor here . one's eyes are bedazzled , " he might have been talking about the look of the film . the soundtrack , which features the work of tchaikovsky , rachmaninoff , and prokofiev , is equally arresting . had the script for anna karenina matched the production values , this movie would have been a rousing success , but that's not the case . once , near the very end , as a broken vronsky reflects on what has transpired , the movie finally allows us to feel for a character , but , as the saying goes , it's too little , too late . leo tolstoy's anna karenina has its good points , but there's nothing here to warrant such an extravagant remake . for anyone who really wants to enjoy the story , with its rich characters , stimulating ideas , and wrenching tragedy , a copy of the paperback book should cost about as much as a movie ticket , and will provide a more lasting and worthwhile investment . 
2	united kingdom , 1995 u . s . release date : varies running length : 1 : 49 mpaa classification : no mpaa rating ( violence , profanity , mature themes ) theatrical aspect ratio : 1 . 66 : 1 one of the most consistent makers of excellent motion pictures during the 1980s and 1990s has been ken loach . with a resume highlighted by such unforgettable titles as hidden agenda , riff-raff , raining stones , and ladybird , ladybird , loach is recognized as the kind of director who will face challenges without backing down . his provocative , idea-rich movies are always populated by believable characters , and his latest offering , land and freedom , is no exception . there are several gritty battle scenes in land and freedom , but , as with all of loach's movies , this one is impelled by ideas . it's unlikely that you've seen a war movie quite like land and freedom . it's a rich , spirited discussion , and both sides make excellent points . this is his tale , and , like all epic journeys of the heart and spirit , it involves triumph , tragedy , love , passion , and pain . this relationship forms the film's emotional center , but , like everything else that david holds dear , it is endangered by his ambivalence about which revolutionary arm to support . loach directs with a deft hand , and jim alleln's script is filled with small , unpredictable turns . idealism can be a lonely , difficult road when action is required -- something that david , blanca , and all the other members of the republican militia learn . 
2	director : errol morris . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( adult themes , mild profanity ) running time : 90 minutes . we're going to have to create a new designation for errol morris , because " documentary filmmaker " just doesn't seem to cut it . yes , morris' subjects have all been real-life people in films like the thin blue line , a brief history of time and fast , cheap & out of control . it's no wonder morris' films have consistently been overlooked by the more tradition-bound documentarians of the motion picture academy . call him a maker of non-fiction films if you must . . . or simply a director . with mr . death : the rise and fall of fred a . leuchter , jr . , errol morris has given us another reason to toss out the term " documentary filmmaker " -- as striking as the film is , it sometimes feels a bit thin on background detail . while activists argue that leuchter's work for revisionist groups marks him an anti-semite , morris paints a slightly different picture . it would be a helpful bit of information in the formation of that picture for us to know that leuchter's academic background had nothing to do with engineering or chemistry , but was in fact in history . though leuchter does discuss a move by the state of massachusetts to prosecute him as an unlicensed engineer late in the film , his background would seem to be much more important than the casual inclusion morris gives it . in fact , mr . morris lets leuchter talk about himself for a very long time , but he doesn't probe . in this case , the approach leaves holes in the story . that doesn't make mr . death a failure as a film . indeed , a less-than-perfect errol morris documentary is still infinitely more watchable than most conventional documentaries . some viewers may find his stylized renderings of his subject -- leuchter the coffee addict reflected in a cup of coffee ; leuchter filmed between flashing electrodes like a modern dr . frankenstein -- distracting or inappropriate . it is surprising , however , that this may be the first morris' documentary that's more interesting as a cinematic experience than it is as a learning experience . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	admittedly , with a title like the mangler , you're not expecting the second coming of the godfather . or even halloween , for that matter . nevertheless , regardless of how silly the name sounds and how unpromising the cast looks , it's difficult to be prepared for something this atrocious . i won't claim this is the worst movie i've ever seen--there are plenty of worthy contenders for that honor--but it's certainly among a select group , right alongside such notables as split second and dr . giggles . i haven't spent much time in laundry factories , but i'm sure there aren't many of them with the near-gothic appearance of the blue ribbon in rivers valley , maine . people are being gobbled up by " the mangler " , the gargantuan machine that presses and folds sheets . he might well have been talking about the movie itself . anyway , it's not long before we learn that the mangler isn't the only machine to run amok . apparently , a refrigerator has developed some homicidal tendencies . imagine , if you will , the sight of two burly men wrestling with a refrigerator before one starts beating it up . actually , the overall plot isn't quite as lucid as the above description might suggest , but i've tried to condense things a little , leaving out , for example , all references to the " missing finger club " and the belladonna antacids that everyone seems to be taking . logic obviously isn't of concern to the mangler's creators . this film is a hodgepodge of the incoherent , the idiotic , and the simply awful . there's not one element of the production worthy of even faint praise . the acting is uniformly terrible . the direction is shoddy . the gore level is very high--the mangler doesn't leave much to the imagination , such as what happens when a person gets forced through a quarter-inch opening . why are good horror films so rare ? take one look at the lack of effort put into the mangler , and the answer will be obvious . it's a lot easier to come up with lifeless , hackneyed drivel like this than to expend any real effort . unfortunately , it's movies like this that give the genre a bad name . in this case , a very bad name . ultimately , sitting through the mangler is about as appealing as getting squeezed through the machine . 
2	manny & lo , the debut feature from writer/director lisa krueger , is a wonderfully-textured comic fantasy about family life . with only a few missteps along the way , this film takes us on a deceptively complex journey of discovery into a world that is similar , yet different , from the one we travel through every day . for , although krueger presents her characters as the human flotsam of modern-day life , there is a timeless , placeless quality to this story . ultimately , it doesn't matter when or where manny & lo takes place , but how the characters' trajectories bring them together at their final destination . by the time she acknowledges that it's not just a few extra pounds , she's too far advanced for an abortion . lo is equally emotionally needy , but conceals her pain and uncertainty with a show of false bravado . another thing that manny , lo , and elaine have in common is a strong capacity for self-deception . no such thing happens . a subplot involving the cabin's owner ( paul guilfoyle ) shows us something about how desperately elaine wants to be part of manny and lo's life , but there are aspects of this sequence that strain the film's delicately-struck balance between reality and fantasy . while i didn't exactly mind this chunk of the story , it didn't seem as well-considered as the rest of the picture . a sizable portion of manny & lo's success should be attributed to a trio of fine performances . aleksa palladino , appearing in her first major feature , finds the right blend of prickliness and vulnerability to make lo a sympathetic character despite her streak of unpleasantness . however , the real find in manny & lo is scarlett johansson , whose unaffected and thoroughly-engaging portrayal of manny is so perfectly on-target that , while watching her , it's easy to forget that this is an actress playing a role . there's something magical about the way lisa krueger's film transports us to its unique reality . there have been many films about family and belonging , but none with quite the same perspective as this one . manny & lo is always pleasant , never confrontational , and comes to a conclusion that is emotionally true . with its carefully-modulated combination of light comedy and drama , the film casts a gentle spell . 
1	" do you ever feel alone ? " most queries he gets are more intimate and crude . they co-wrote the script , and michael directed the movie . in her film debut , fashion model michele hicks gives a passable performance as penny . the deliberately slow movie , which is told in whispers and low voices , is a tragedy with comedic overtones . with heavy , soulful flute and clarinet solos and filmed in dark , somber colors , the picture has a mesmerizing quality . " maybe i'll call you when i'm single , " blake tells penny once with prophetic sadness . part of the movie deals with the brothers' intense and unusual mental bonding . another concerns the more sensational aspects of being what used to be called siamese twins . " you don't think i can identify with them ? " he asks . " i've got a woman inside of me screaming to get out . " even if the acting by the brothers is astonishing , the story drifts hopelessly and is ultimately just a curiosity piece . a tender and well-made one , but a curiosity piece nonetheless . it is rated r for brief profanity and would be fine for kids 12 and up . 
2	you have all been to movies that were dogs , but which , nevertheless , contain one or two outstanding performances . well , tonight i got to see one of those rare examples of the reverse ! the great director franco zeffirelli , who created the best movie production of shakespeare in my lifetime , romeo and juliet ( 1968 ) , has turned his tremendous creative genius and crafted a wonderful new jane eyre . the substantial flaw that prevents this film from greatness is that zeffirelli made one terrible casting choice in charlotte gainsbourg to play jane eyre . even with problems with the leads , the majesty of the film and wonderful story of the novel ( by charlotte bronte with screenplay by hugh whitemore and franco zeffirelli ) shine through . i went to stay with my aunt who didn't love me . " sound is important in this show . listen in these scenes the way the sound effects editor has removed almost all ambient noises to accentuate the dialogue and the small sounds in the room . she has the long neck of giraffe and enunciates her words without nuance or emotion as if she is angry at the director for requiring her to speak . she creates jane eyre as an unlikable and unsympathetic character . jane sternly replies , " we will work hard , and we will be content . " with blank eyes she replies , " i hardly know . i have little experience of them . " she has radiant , curly , blond hair in sharp contrast to jane dull , straight , and black hair . so much about the peripheral aspects of the film are outstanding . they feel real and not like museum pieces . the movie has pervasive and rich music by claudio cappani and alessio vlad . the music moves seamlessly between the sweeping grandeur and the delicate personal pieces . after a strong beginning and then a middle featuring too much footage of gainsbourg , the film really comes into its own in the last part and begins to engage the viewer much more than the middle part . i really liked the show absent the issue of the two leads . the conundrum is why did zeffirelli cast charlotte gainsbourg as jane eyre , and why didn't he give better directorial guidance to william hurt ? this was a decision as brilliant as his logic was flawed in choosing the lifeless charlotte gainsbourg as jane eyre . i frankly have no idea how he could have made a choice so bad . jane eyre runs a bit long at 1 : 52 and some parts would have better been left on the cutting room table by editor richard marden . the film is correctly rated pg for a single scene of a bloody wound and a couple of mild profanities . there is no violence , nudity , or sex other than a couple of almost platonic kisses . the film would be fine for any kid old enough to be interested in the material which i would guess to be about 9 . i really liked the show , flaws and all , and recommend it to you . to be fair , i should point out that my wife thought the movie was " appalling bad , " and said she was almost ready walk out . usually when we disagree , it is a movie that i hate , and she thinks is pretty good , but here we reversed . finally , i give the film * * * . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	i should have been so lucky to have been gone from the theater in 60 seconds ; but , i sat through this two hour remake of the slender film " gone " ( 1974 ) , an original film that was so shallow , everything else seen that year must have seemed deep by comparison . it's hard to get lower in moral decrepitude than this car current booster film . this was not only a bad film but a particularly annoying one . this is a jerry bruckheimer productions , which has come to stand for mediocrity in artistic value but for success in the box office , which will probably mirror how this film does , though it is a little worst artistically speaking than his other mediocre films , as if that will supposedly matter to its target audience . to make up for not coming prepared with a script that made sense , a stellar cast was hired but then was asked to do nothing , instead some gorgeous vintage cars were put on display and each was given a girl's name . everything about the story was kept hyper , as mindless violence won out over gratuitous sex , to become the major selling point of this exploitive film . the action begins right from the opening credits . the thrill of the film now becomes in watching the crew be selected , which includes angelina jolie , chi mcbride , james duval , and scott caan , none of whom are in the least bit interesting or funny . jolie seems to disappear for most of the film , only to reappear much later in the film and mumble a few inconsequential lines . there's basically no story or dialogue , the action is all packaged like commercials are with gloss and trick shots , colored filters , fast-paced editing , and all the other tricks of the trade the directors for jerry bruckheimer use to sell the action sequences . everything about this film seemed ridiculous . its logic for being could be taken apart at any point of the film . the moral bankruptcy it presented , that lindo would just let cage and his crew off the hook for all the thefts , was too much to comprehend . it was so weak to hear lindo say to cage , " well , you saved my life , and i guess it was a brotherly thing you did for your brother , so i'm going to let you go , now get out of here before i change my mind . " if i had my wish , lindo should go to jail for failing to do his job . the director should go to work in duvall's body shop and never direct another film . and , this senseless macho film should die a slow death at the box office , so films like this would become extinct like dinosaurs . i should be so lucky . . . 
1	to die for is the movie that finally proves that nicole kidman can act . she does the best rendition of an airhead that i can remember . although it sometimes get a bit tedious and monotonous , her performance never gets contrived or corny . many scenes follow of both sets of parents being interviewed on an oprah style television talk show . what kind of personality is not important to her , only fame is . as she puts it , " you aren't really anybody in america if you're not on tv . " jane , she whispers to the audience , has " a tiny weight problem you know . " the cinematography ( eric alan ) of about a third of the movie is a documentary style of talking heads and with a handheld camera full of numerous pans and zooms . in a continuing series , we have an excellent performance by janice in her ice-skates talking about larry and about how much she hated suzanne . suzanne then goes on to point out how gorbachev would probably still be in power if had had plastic surgery on his birthmark . in an autobiographical monologue that runs through the whole show , suzanne pontificates about life . she is always upbeat and smiling , and she explains that " it's nice to live in a country where life , liberty , and other stuff , stand for something . " coming so close to the conclusion of the farcical simpson circus , some viewers may find this part tragic rather than comical . the script by buck henry and gus van sant jr . and based on the novel by joyce maynard is filled with scenes so hilarious that i had almost uncontrollable laughter . that is the good news . the bad is that there are wastelands of dead time between the laughs . the problem with the non-funny parts is that the writers have not created characters that you care about so that no matter how great kidman's acting is and no matter how hard you laughed ten minutes ago , you don't care if the characters get used , abused , or shot . dillon , for example , doesn't have much of a part , and he certainly does nothing memorable with it . as a director , i find gus van sant jr . 's style too eclectic for my taste . this is not surprising since his last film was that major bomb , even cowgirls get the blues . nevertheless , i do like to die for . they do a wonderful job of making suzanne into an extremely made up woman in very brief miniskirts and yet they never go over the line and overdo it . the pushed her look to the absolute limit , but never made her look sleazy . to die for runs 1 : 40 , and i think the editors ( jeffrey arsenault and curtiss clayton ) should have left a few more entire scenes on the cutting room floor so that the meantime to laugher was much smaller . the movie is rated r for sex , understated violence , some profanity , and about one second of nudity from a far distance . it is a soft r , and i would see no problem in teenagers seeing the show . there were certainly many in the audience where i was . i give to die for a thumbs up for kidman's performance , for interesting docudrama style cinematography , and for some huge laughs , and i award it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . reviewed written on : october 6 , 1995 opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
1	as the old adage goes , be careful what you wish for lest you get it and , by implication , loathe it . starring macaulay culkin in his first big role , the movie was a hit for its slapstick humor as well as the age-old theme of a kid who bests the grown-ups . ( the problem with your kids' watching movie series is that it is not always easy to start them with the first episode . it was a simple matter of a bad headcount on the airport shuttle and , what with the commotion of leaving , etc . , they didn't notice kevin's absence . culkin displays a wide range of acting emotions . he is especially cute hamming it up in front of the mirror . looking brave , wise , and yet vulnerable , culkin is perfect for the role . imaginative , kevin turns on all the lights , cranks up the stereo , and moves cardboard cutouts on his electric train to make his house look chockfull of adults . using relentlessly upbeat christmas music by star wars's john williams , the movie contrasts the joyous holiday season with the less than ideal situation in which kevin and his parents find themselves . although the two robbers are central to the storyline , the movie is at its best when they are nowhere to be seen . they cause the sweet , original movie to dissolve into cheap slapstick that you've seen many times before . a little of stern and pesci goes a long way , and home alone has them in almost every scene in the last half of the movie . too bad kevin's adversaries had to be so terminally stupid - the rest of the picture isn't . it is rated pg for comic violence and would be fine for most kids . my son jeffrey , age 9 , gave the movie * * * . 
1	screenplay : joe gayton , lewis colick . director : ernest dickerson . all right , let's dispense with the preliminaries first : yes , bulletproof recycles material which has been done before -- and done better -- in midnight run and 48 hrs . , among others . yes , it is the kind of movie which has been a thorn in the paw of everyone who has dreamed of a day when hollywood values an original idea . and yes , it includes the kind of sexist and homophobic bits which have been all too characteristic of films of its kind , targeted at the whooping goons of the movie-going world like the one sitting next to me at this film . all these things are true , yet they are not exactly the reason why bulletproof comes up short . you see , bulletproof is frequently quite funny , and it irritated me that i was unable to enjoy the laughs as much as i should have . it is somewhat ironic that archie frequently chides jack for seeing the world as " just black and white , " since that is just one of many ways this film follows the pattern of 90% of " antagonistic buddy cop " movies . just as a little test to check if you've ever seen a movie in this genre before , see if you can guess whether archie and jack are friends when bulletproof ends . that's right , this film takes you where every film of its kind has taken you before , on a bickering ride to an inevitable conclusion , and it is abundantly clear that writers joe gayton and lewis colick are aware of that fact as well . at only 85 minutes , bulletproof still feels long , because there is nothing of any consequence happening , nothing to build momentum towards a resolution . there is a recipe for a film of this kind , and gayton and lewis follow it , and we are simply watching them follow it . the experience is like watching an hour and a half long cooking show in which the final result is a bowl of cereal . i wish it had been easier to dismiss bulletproof given all those problems , but the fact is that it is also quite often funny . adam sandler , who turns in his least annoying screen performance to date ( and if that isn't damning with faint praise , i don't know what is ) , gets most of the prime lines , taunting jack and wise-cracking about the porno films on the motel television where the two spend the night . when sandler isn't trying to play a goofy character , he can deliver a line with a casual zing , and when he isn't screaming he can be funny . of course , it might also be true that screaming is just sandler's way of keeping a straight face ; if you've ever seen sandler perform live , you know that he finds himself hilarious , and when he is trying to " act " in bulletproof it always seems that he is trying not to snicker . damon wayans isn't much better as a thespian , and he is placed in the uncomfortable role of straight man . he does get a few brutal put-downs , but most of the time he is simply playing put-upon , and it doesn't suit him . when he and sandler are allowed to go toe-to-toe , the confrontations are enjoyable , but they are interrupted regularly by tedious and obligatory action sequences . the result is a strange inversion of the formula which made twister so frustrating : i wanted to be around for the scenes when wayans and sandler were trading jibes , but i was ready to head to the lobby as soon as the gunfire started . it is clear that both wayans and sandler -- and the audience -- would have enjoyed 90 minutes of their stand-up routines more than this routine of a somewhat different kind . for all its humor , the real joke in bulletproof is on anyone who expected it to be more than this month's variation on a theme . 
0	beautiful isn't . a lifeless , mean-spirited film , it arrives doa at your local theater today . advertised as a comedy , the picture , thanks to sally's field's inept direction and jon bernstein's dull script , is , instead , a depressing drama . with beauty pageants as its subject , beautiful should have been an easy success . is there anything easier to satirize than beauty pageants ? last year's marvelously funny drop dead gorgeous showed what is possible . even if beautiful can't rise to that level , does it have to be so painful to watch ? every performance is gratingly awful , and all the roles are badly miscast . attractive minnie driver , as mona hibbard , the story's protagonist , doesn't have the body for a beauty pageant winner . she's a terrific actress , but even she can't pull this one off , especially given how badly and unsympathetically her part is written . to give you an idea of just how ugly beautiful can be , one of the key subplots concerns mona's disowning her own daughter , vanessa . it seems that you can't be miss american miss if you have children . incidents in beautiful will more likely have you going " yuck " than laughing . at least it works so that we don't witness child abuse . since the teenaged mona isn't even finishing in " the top 20 " of contests that don't seem to have more than a dozen entrants , she hires a beauty consultant . any movie willing to have kathleen turner in it is bound to be a stinker . yes , she was once a good actress . beautiful should have been released as a tv movie . if so , it would have been a decidedly below average tv movie . actually , were it not for sally field and minnie driver being associated with the production , it would never have been released in any venue . it is rated pg-13 for language and thematic elements . although it would be acceptable for kids 11 and up , i would not recommend this to anyone of any age . 
2	a neat noir thriller that has a slight variation on the " double indemnity " theme , this time it is the guy who is the seducer . dalton trumbo , the blacklisted writer , is the uncredited cowriter of the script . his trademark signal at the end of his show is , " i'll be seeing you susan . " this is particularly annoying for webb , as he calls his voice oily . as for the contemptuous van heflin , who really has a disregard for others , his love for keyes was real but not enough for him , he had to also have the superficial material things of life to satisfy his weak ego . these two stars gave superb performances in this arresting thriller that is scripted with a social conscience and a taut sense of reality . 
0	director : brian levant . mpaa rating : pg ( mild profanity , adult humor ) running time : 90 minutes . brian levant , director of the flintstones in viva rock vegas ( as well as the 1994 flintstones feature ) , says and does everything you'd expect of a sequel to a film based on a television series . he professes his affection for the original series , and his desire to remain true to its spirit . in short , it is levant's goal to create a thoroughly synthesized film experience . that being the case , chalk up viva rock vegas as a smashing success of the most yawn-inducing sort . it's somehow more depressing when a film like viva rock vegas shows flashes of genuinely inspired writing , letting you know that those involved could have done much better if it had mattered at all to them . there's a great gag about circus side-show freaks including " a 40-year-old man , " a wonderful ham-fisted compliment with fred comparing wilma's eyes to " two big eyes " and an addled rock star's vague concern over whether his female companion is a minor . it's also hard not to get a few giggles out of cumming's double-duty as the effete gazoo and the preening mick jagged . in general , though , the film is content to coast on its special effects , its insider humor ( ann-margret , co-star of the elvis presley film viva las vegas , singing the title song ) and its bronto-crane-load of " rock " puns . handling such a recognizable commodity , levant sees no need to rock -- no pun intended -- this particular boat . of course , he has no choice but to deal with a complete overhaul of the original film's cast . john goodman gives way to addy , who's personable enough and bypasses alan reed's fred entirely to go right to the source with a decent imitation of jackie gleason . the muscular baldwin isn't nearly as ideal a barney as rick moranis , nor does johnston match elizabeth perkins' endearingly flat readings of wilma's signature " frad ; " in neither case does the film waste any time explaining how each one shrinks several inches by the time the next film rolls around . only krakowski seems more physically right for her part -- god love rosie o'donnell , but she's no wasp-waist -- and her titter is on target . there's not much one can say to criticize performances like these -- " cartoonish " would be a compliment , after all -- but there's not much that distinguishes them , either . the actors , like most everything else in the film , seem set up not to get in the way of the general feeling of good will . some might argue that a disposable entertainment like viva rock vegas is nothing more than brightly-colored , slapstick-heavy eye candy for the kids , and should be treated as such . it might be easier to buy that reasoning if it didn't take exactly four minutes before the first flatulence joke , and 15 minutes for the first joke about fred and barney sheepishly denying the appearance of a homosexual relationship . i don't recall those as the kind of gags typical of the series for which brian levant expresses so much fond remembrance . the flintstones in viva rock vegas , isolated bursts of genuine humor aside , is a deeply pandering film . it panders to stereotypes ; it panders to the most inane adult nostalgia ; it panders to the most simplistic kiddie humor . that's often the kind of film you get when your primary goal is the comfort of the familiar . . . in this case , humor that was already tired when dinosaurs walked the earth . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
1	starring : eddie murphy , judge reinhold , hector elizondo , theresa randle , timothy carhart , alan young , bronson pinchot director : john landis producers : mace neufeid and robert rehme screenplay : steven e . de souza music : nile rodgers released by paramount pictures and , as was the case with those other two films , this isn't an inspiring comeback attempt . the irreverence is still there , but there's no verve or freshness . murphy's performance in this , the third installment of his popular gunplay-and-comedy series , is flat and mechanical . all this is pretty unoriginal cops-and-robbers stuff , and that's basically what beverly hills cop iii is - routine . the one or two " surprises " should be obvious to those who are even half-watching what's going on . the comedy is mostly restricted to one-liners , some of which aren't funny . and the action is uninspired , barely tapping the vast potential of an amusement park chase film . bronson pinchot returns as serge , one of the most annoying personalities in any of eddie murphy's films . while humorous in small doses , this character comes dangerously close to being overexposed . at least the stuff with serge's weapon , the " annihilator 2000 " , is somewhat amusing , even if the parody is a little obvious . none of these four have roles of any significance , but at least watching for them will give you something to do while slogging your way through the heart of this otherwise- uninvolving film . in murphy's own words , the project was on hold until a script was found that showed axel as someone who isn't just " . . . wide-eyed and babbling and walking around beverly hills . " unfortunately , in adding maturity , too much spontaneity was taken away . it looks like murphy is going to have to try again for that comeback . 
0	" here we are , caught in the gravitational pull of a blue giant , and all you can think about is sex , " troy larson ( peter facinelli ) says to danika lund ( robin tunney ) . amazingly , sex is indeed the theme of supernova , an incorrectly rated pg-13 science fiction film . laced with frequent nudity and scenes of floating naked bodies having sex , the movie cries out to be rated r . given the show's theme and its rating one can expect lots of kids under 13 to see it , as there were in my audience . with acting this lethargic , it's quite difficult , however , to see how editing could do much to change the quality of the picture for the better or the worse . the mine is on a moon that is so far off that the ship has to make a dimensional jump , sort of a leap through hyperspace , to get there . what is the one thing necessary to accomplish such a jump ? think of all of the fun that the millennium falcon's crew has been missing . featuring nothing less than " ninth dimension matter , " this mean little piece of plasma is -- surprise ! -- trouble . like the rest of the special effects in the film , which rely heavily on flashing lights and fog to create the atmospherics , the look of this devilish substance is cheap . but given the 10 minutes of credits at the end of the picture to the film's technical teams , one suspects that lots of the studio's money was wasted in the creation of these lame effects . one suspects that most of the people associated with this film will be filled with regret that they ever had anything to do with it . only briefly as a guilty pleasure for adults does the picture have anything to recommend it . it is rated pg-13 for sex , nudity and violence . it would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
2	it's hard piloting a large spacecraft through a space station if the only practice you've ever had is with cardboard models on a television series . needless to say , our reluctant heroes have no idea , well no real idea , what to do . in dean parisot's side-splittingly funny galaxy quest , this delicious concept is milked for every joke possible . setting a perfect comedic tone , the movie is a delightful and imaginative parody of star trek , right down to their hokey conventions with adoring fans , dressed in full and authentic series regalia . the campy movie never veers into slapstick , and the ensemble cast plays every scene with complete seriousness and believability . given the volume and the frequency of the laughter that the film produces , it could be thought of as the pg comedic equivalent of there's something about mary . galaxy quest makes silly ideas so likeably funny that you can't control your laughter , even if you try . never surrender ! " nesmit is an extroverted , egocentric actor who plays the convention crowds like he's a rock star . needless to say , demarco has never been pleased with her highly limited role . every science fiction show needs lots of expendable crew members . with voices rather like porpoises and gestures that blend many animal behaviors , the thermians produce instant mirth whenever they are on the set . they've even reconstructed the protector , right down to gadgets that they have no idea how to work but are sure the real crew will . the film's purposely ridiculous monsters range from innocent-looking alien babies with sharp teeth to lumbering rock monsters to a grotesquely rotund pig , all done with spoofing , not frightening , in mind . with a constant look of " oh my god , i can't believe i'm doing this , " the actors try their best to fake it . although most of them convincingly do and say the right things , fleegman doesn't have the same ad-libbing skills as the others . for all of those scriptwriters who don't think through the logic of their stories , the movie shows what can happen . " whoever wrote this episode should die ! " only flagging briefly when it tries momentarily to get serious , the parody is likely to appeal as well to 10-year-olds as to senior citizens . there's even a " gilligan's island " joke . yes , the thermians think it's a documentary , and they feel quite sorry for those poor people stuck on that island . it is rated pg for silly monsters and a little mild profanity . the film would be fine for all ages , but the monsters may briefly frighten some impressionable young kids . my son jeffrey , age 10 , gave the film * * * * . he laughed loudly and often . words i heard afterwards from them included : imaginative , exciting , hilarious , great plot , best movie in a long time , etc . the kids were blown away by the movie . 
2	with heaven and earth , oliver stone has completed his so-called " vietnam trilogy " --three films that examine different aspect of the war that , to this point , has provided the centerpiece of stone's filmmaking career . heaven and earth has the epic scope one would expect from a film of this magnitude , but it lacks much of the narrative strength of stone's first two vietnamese tales . it is a good motion picture , and its story is certainly worth committing to film , but heaven and earth is no masterpiece . the strongest segment of the movie is its first half , which takes place in vietnam . the pace is less frenzied , and events are better-motivated and more clearly-connected . watching the helpless victimization of le ly is an emotionally-draining experience , but it illustrates one of stone's favorite themes--that in war , there are no winners , and the innocent always suffer the worst . there is a torture scene involving honey , ants , and snakes , that is more disturbing to watch than some of the bloodiest sequences . once steve butler enters the film , the direction of the narrative begins to waver . large portions of le ly's adaptation to life in california are glossed over in favor of an unnecessarily-long epilogue . this portion of heaven and earth could have been stronger had the same care been lavished upon it as was devoted to the first half . the missteps are not fatal , but they're noticeable . several interlocking themes are examined . the first , and most obvious , deals with the parallel sufferings of le ly and butler . the protagonists in these films are always those whose souls pay a terrible price in service to violence . " rebuilding after a war is like starting a family by being raped , " says le ly's brother , and the writer/director makes sure that the audience is aware of all the implications of that phrase . karma , as well as other metaphysical aspects of buddhism are skimmed over , with stone occasionally managing to weave them seamlessly into the overall story . however , elements of one scene near the end are jarring , especially considering a comment by le ly . oliver stone's directorial flair is in full evidence here , with a number of memorable camera shots , perhaps the most impressive of which occurs during the first landing in ky la of a south vietnamese government helicopter . the use of flashbacks , whether in black-and-white or color , is overdone , as are the voiceovers , which at times fall into the trap of telling the audience things that would have been better off shown . the choice of newcomer hiep thi le as le ly may become a source of debate . she is adequate , but not peerless , and the limits of her acting ability are highlighted in several emotionally-charged scenes opposite haing ngor and tommy lee jones , both of whom give credible , wrenching performances . although the weakest of the films , it is easily recognizable as the director's work by its stylistic , thematic , and narrative content . the story itself is ambitious , and only partially-realized , but what there is on screen is potent enough to warrant a viewing for those who admire the film maker and aren't dissuaded by grim subjects . 
1	" you could be such a pleasant person if you had a tiny edit button , " says slovetzian president boris pochenko to his children's new teacher joy miller . if you haven't heard her before , think of someone grating their fingers across a blackboard . even with her harsh good looks and tacky clothes , she still manages to win our hearts with her incessant cheerfulness . one of the more delicious parts of the film lies in the selection of costumes . typical is joy's outfit of tight lavender stretch pants with a lime green sweater top and matching headband . ( " so tell me , " asks joy , " what can you get for a place like this ? i mean in this neighborhood . " ) just like the von trapp family kids in the sound of music , the pochenko children are a large and mixed group of ages and emotions . literature consists of having the kids watch a west side story tape to make shakespeare more accessible . the two best scenes in the show involve the people of the country . most of the film is a sweet little picture . whenever this part takes center stage , the show bogs down . it does , however , engender one of the story's funnier lines . the film goes on ten to fifteen minutes past its natural ending point . still , i left with a nice grin . not a memorable show , but at least a funny diversion . it is rated pg for some mild language . it would be acceptable for kids of any age , but i suspect they will need to be nine or so to understand most of the humor . i give it thumbs up and * * 1/2 . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . 
1	of course , there wouldn't be a movie if a plot device didn't come along to re-activate them . anyone who takes any part of this film seriously has missed the point . undercover blues is pure farce , with no inconvenient things like drama , characterization , or storyline thrown in to muddy the waters . the film frequently doesn't make sense and , on those occasions when it does , its stupidity is so transparent that we almost wish it didn't . but that's part of the movie's limited charm . most comedy spy stories try for a few dramatic or thriller-type moments , but not undercover blues . in a way , it's refreshing never to have to worry about the heroes being in danger . you know from the beginning that there's no chance of that . the bad guys are straight out of the comics , and they're not the only ones . the characters of jeff and jane blue have absolutely no depth , but their banter is frequently amusing , although not laughably funny . whatever term you want to use for their pairing , be it likable or appealing , turner and quaid play off of each other as well as the script allows . fiona shaw is a little to shrill to be enjoyable , and her role isn't a particularly large one . her novacek is a nasty woman who never elicits more than a halfhearted chuckle , and manages to get involved in an embarrassing mud-wrestling match with jane blue . similarly , obba babatunde ( as the tough-as-nails cop who trails around after the blues ) has few genuinely funny moments , and it's a little difficult to fathom exactly what his character is doing in the movie . more than occasionally , he becomes an unwanted annoyance . the same cannot be said of stanley tucci , whose muerte is by far the best element of the movie . after that humiliating incident , he shows up time and time again , providing several moments of hilarity amidst the sometimes plodding movement of a pointless plot . a major weakness of undercover blues is that it pays more than mere lip service to its story ( i . e . , it actually allows events to move along towards a recognizable conclusion ) . there are numerous scenes that simply don't work , and their presence slows proceedings to a grinding halt . this is pretty obviously a case of having too little material to fill up the requisite feature film length . nevertheless , undercover blues is silly enough to deserve some credit , and for those who see it , there will at least be a few laughs . this is one of the most empty-headed comedies in a long while , and it revels in its own admitted idiocy . it's debatable whether anyone would want to pay money for this picture , but when it gets to cable , it might be worth a look for those in the right mood . after all , there's always a place for mindless entertainment , even if that place is on television . 
2	let's face it . kelly makin's mickey blue eyes is analyze this-lite , but that isn't necessarily a bad thing . any movie with hugh grant ( notting hill ) , james caan ( the godfather ) and jeanne tripplehorn ( basic instinct ) is almost guaranteed to be an entertaining success , even if a similar one with robert de niro , billy crystal and lisa kudrow was better . big laughs are big laughs . that another movie earlier in the year would rate higher on the laugh-o-meter is irrelevant . mickey blue eyes delivers more than enough crowd pleasing humor . hugh grant , with his boyish grin and his rumpled good looks , is the master of the i-can't-believe-this-is-happening-to-me situation . he wears his charming naivet ? on his sleeve and makes what he does look so easy that it doesn't appear to be acting . and this isn't even the worst part . it all starts innocently enough . michael points out the problem with the name , but , as in the rest of the story , people don't pay much attention to his opinion . the movie , with few exceptions , never forgets it's a parody . although trying hard to avoid any degree of criminality , michael , nevertheless , manages to earn himself the moniker of kansas city mickey blue eyes . the movie's funniest scenes have him trying with little success to mimic the gang's pronunciation of such classic lines as " fuggedaboutit . " with his grace and style , grant dominates the film , but the rest of the cast nicely complement him . tripplehorn , whose strength is her sexuality , taps a comedic reservoir rarely seen before other than her work in last year's underappreciated black comedy very bad things . every actor who has ever played an italian mobster appears to be in the large and effective supporting cast . director makin ( kids in the hall ) generally has a good sense of comedic timing , although some parts of the movie flag briefly . the movie is old-fashioned fun . but does it go so far as to be memorable ? it is rated pg-13 for brief strong language , some violence and sensuality and would be fine for kids 9 and up . my son jeffrey , age 10 , found the film funny and gave it * * * . he liked the actors and the ending surprises . 
2	" robin hood is it , you scumbag ? " the general was a modern day folk hero to dubliners in the 1980s and early 1990s . the general's writer and director john boorman , oscar nominee for deliverance , creates an astonishing and captivating portrait of an iconoclastic criminal . brendan gleeson from braveheart gives a marvelous and revealing performance as the general . with thin , stringy hair , a ruddy complexion and a belly that looks like it never met a pub it didn't love , the general doesn't look like anybody's idea of a hero . using his meaty hands , martin spends most of his time outdoors trying to cover his face , even though his easily recognizable physique belies this crude cover-up . the supporting cast , including adrian dunbar as martin's right-hand man , noel curley , and jon voight as inspector kenny , are all well chosen , but the movie excels on the strength of boorman's crisp direction and the complex and likable acting by gleeson . that the general was a rogue is never left to question , but the movie makes it easy to understand how such people can , nevertheless , earn the public's adulation . understanding what the director was trying to accomplish can perhaps best be seen in the medium of the presentation . boorman chose to shoot the movie in black and white . why ? the result is a fascinating and revealing portrait of a real and complex character , one whom you'll love even though you know you shouldn't . and in the process you get a better appreciation for what makes people admire the unadmirable . the general runs 2 : 09 . it is rated r for some violence and profanity and would be fine for teenagers . 
0	this is not an art movie , yet i saw it an art house theater . it is perfect for the mall , where teenagers experiencing brain drains can feel good about being mindless and not have to apologize that this is an american film , about that old cliche of young lovers relentlessly on the run . if seen at your friendly mall , you could , at least , be reassured that there is little chance of anyone trying to sneak it in as an art film , as was tried in the art house . rlr should make it apparent that other countries can make obnoxious films with banal and predictable characters just as readily as americans can . there is no substance in this fast food german meal , served up at a deliciously kinetic speed so that you have no time to think about how stupid the story is and how depraved the lead characters are , and what a lousy meal you have just had . the film is as deep as reading a daffy duck comic book or playing a road runner video game or watching a bugs bunny cartoon , and if that entertains you , then perhaps , i could recommend that you take a look at run lola run , it might be what you are looking for . it has the audacity to have in its opening credits a quote from t . s . in all probability , the blue-bloodied elliott would not have cared for this film- and to quote him and then have a film that has nothing in the world to do with his poem or with the quote , except to show that even these crass critters who created this film aspire to a higher art form , is simply a ridiculous attempt by them to try and achieve credibility when it is not necessary to do so , this film stands on its own four paws . these questions once asked on screen are , of course , never even attempted to be answered . though it would have been good comedic dialogue to have the two leads , lola ( franka potente ) and manni ( moritz bleibtreu ) , try to resolve these deep philosophical questions . what does take place is a soccer ball being kicked to open the action in the film , as the movie is supposed to be like a game , with the director making up the rules as he goes along . manni , not to be undone , sports a few nifty tattoos himself , while also taking on the punk look . the fun to this story , if you are going to have any , comes in following lola as she makes a run for it through spots that she will revisit three different times each for 20-minutes and with three different versions , before the film is over , as any one of the versions could be true or none of them could be true , it just doesn't matter . nothing matters , here . this is a disposable film , like junk food , when done you throw it in the waste can . needless to say , anything goes here ; this film does not try to make sense and it doesn't . its comedy is on the low end of the totem pole of comedy , though the old silent comedians , such as charlie chaplin and buster keaton did bits similar to this , but they had a logic to their madcap humor and knew how to tell a story in their comedy . there are so many films that tried this theme out for size , some successfully like rashomon ( 1950 ) , some modestly successful like blind chance ( 1982 ) , others less successfully , such as sliding doors ( 1998 ) , but none as unsuccessful as this one . at least this subtitled , low-budget film flew by quickly and leaves you no worst for wear after seeing it . . . it certainly didn't appeal to me ; i was just not smitten with its attempt to be such a cleverly edited , jejune summer film . and he replies , " i just know . " well , i just know i didn't like this film . 
1	when it comes to embracing camp , there's no halfway point . to be successful in this arena , a movie must turn its back on even the semblance of conventionality , expressing everything from the most insignificant line of dialogue to a climactic event with an irreverence that would make the monty python troupe members offer winks and nudges of appreciation . it is because tank girl takes this approach that it germinates into a high-spirited , madcap example of film making run amok . certainly , this movie isn't art , but it sure is fun . film adaptations of comic books have become nearly as prevalent as those based on stephen king stories . nothing is sacred--this movie pushes the envelope as far as it will go , and the result is an offbeat and energized juxtaposition of action and comedy . this is the kind of tone that films like hudson hawk , the last action hero , and demolition man tried in vain to capture . it's the mixture of seeming spontaneity and a total lack of seriousness that fuels whatever success tank girl has . the name of the game is outrageousness , and the script never attempts anything that might damage it . there is no characterization to speak of , and the plot is simply a nonsensical piece of fluff upon which to drape so much excess . and just when you think things can't get sillier , something happens to change your mind , whether it's the insertion of oddly-rendered animated sequences , a bizarre rendition of cole porter's " let's do it " , or lori petty's title character sporting a brassiere that would make madonna gasp with envy . in this scenario , the earth-devastating disaster was a comet strike , and it has left most of the globe in ruins and water in short supply . she gets all the right inflections on the one-liners and doesn't know the meaning of the term " reserve " . malcolm mcdowell , the consummate over-the-top villain , displays a far more delectable nastiness here than in star trek generations . with a breakneck , don't-bother-to-stop-and-think-about-it pace , tank girl zips along for over one-hundred moments , only occasionally lapsing from its zaniness . the rock-and-rap soundtrack , supervised by courtney love-cobain , invigorates certain scenes , and blends nicely with the visuals . judging by the finished product , it's pretty clear that director rachel talalay achieved her vision . tank girl is one of those chew-the-popcorn , munch-the-candy flicks--the kind you go into expecting to have a good time , but nothing more . given those expectations , disappointment is as unlikely as boredom . 
0	screenplay : peter atkins . producers : pierre david , clark peterson and noel a . zanitsch . director : robert kurtzman . mpaa rating : ( graphic gore and violence , profanity ) running time : 88 minutes . prior to that point , cinematic horror was generally restricted to innocuous creature features and the occasional genuine thriller ( psycho , the haunting ) which was more in your head than in your face . the phenomenal success of the exorcist changed all that , giving rise to the notion that the way to shake up an audience was from the stomach out . there was even one teen scream film , happy birthday to me , which trumpeted in its ad campaign that it contained some of " the most bizarre murders you will ever see . " wishmaster , a limp and generally tedious horror film about an ancient djinn ( andrew divoff ) accidentally released into modern-day america by a jewelry appraiser ( tammy lauren ) , would have no reason to exist if not to show off a gaggle of grotesqueries : skin flayed from flesh , a skeleton tearing loose from its body , eviscerations by the cartload , cancerous pustules erupting on a pharmacist's skin , all manner of creepy-crawlies emerging from the orifices of human hosts , a face indented by an iron mace like something out of a warner bros . cartoon , and a few garden-variety shootings for street cred . director robert kurtzman -- a former special-effects man handed a basic premise for a story ( an ancient djinn loose in modern-day america ) , a budget and an r rating -- occasionally stumbles across an innovative visual idea which doesn't involve exposing anatomical features generally hidden from view . more often , when in doubt , he lets loose with the red karo syrup . wishmaster also wouldn't exist without a few noteworthy antecedents like " the man in the bottle " episode of the original " twilight zone " and " the monkey's paw . " screenwriter peter atkins seems convinced that his notion of a malevolent genie is wildly original , and that the idea of that genie providing literalist renderings of vague wishes is positively ingenious . an original idea isn't necessary when you can take an old one and spice it up with state-of-the-art viscera-spilling . like far too many supernatural horror films , about half of wishmaster's exposition seems devoted to explaining the detailed rules for how the monster wreaks his havoc , how he can be destroyed , etc . the good news is that that exposition provides a few memorable moments for jenny o'hara , sharp and sassy as the occult expert every monster movie needs . the bad news is that the whole business is pointless , a foolish stab at internal logic in a genre where internal logic matters far less than what kind of mayhem a djinn can inflict when someone wishes for a " wild party . " horror films can work when the people who make them display a sense for the giddy catharsis of a good scare , but there's nothing scary about wishmaster unless you count the half-dozen or so times the music cranks up to a decibel level just this side of the concorde . it's just a humorless display of special-effects prowess , the latest installment in the ongoing game of " can you top this ? " see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
1	although it never achieves lift-off , its clich ? d story boldly comes out foursquare against anti-semitism . among its musical treats are melodic opera arias , lip-synced by john turturro in a silly beard , and a moody rendition of " gloomy sunday , " lip-synced by christina ricci . after working hard , albeit with mixed success , on making the accents authentic , potter gives up on only one nationality , the germans . the only characters with american accents are the nazis . since we've seen all of this before , the only things we're likely to remember are the visuals . depp makes one heck of a handsome gypsy , and turturro looks ridiculous as an opera singer . it is rated r for sexuality and would be acceptable for teenagers . just send me a letter with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . 
1	director : spike lee . i see spike lee working . i have a pretty good idea what he was up to with summer of sam . it would be a tale of how paranoia can amplify the xenophobia that already exists in so many people . it would be both ambitious and intimate , both a period piece and a piece of who we still are . it would be an important film . i see spike lee working , and i saw summer of sam working . . . up to a point . for a while , the stories of lee's two main characters are promising enough that summer of sam keeps you watching . leguizamo is particularly strong in his role ( will someone _please_ put this guy's talent to good use ? ) , but both characters work in juxtaposition to the son of sam -- they're anti-social people who happen to functionally anti-socials . though the period production design comes and goes , there's still a strong sense of this particular time and place in new york . we see 1977 as a more intense period in the life of the city , when the thin connecting thread of rooting for the yankees was always ready to snap into violence . there are lots of big issues moving through summer of sam , and lee is ready to make sure we always know it . lee even opens with an extended crane shot that serves as a big flashing red light that the director wants touch of evil/boogie nights respect for his project . lee may be talented , but his pure id approach to directing leads to some baffling decisions . no decision in summer of sam is more baffling -- or more harmful to the film -- than lee's portrayal of berkowitz himself . it was a risky enough maneuver introducing berkowitz as a character at all rather than leaving him as a bogeyman haunting the periphery of the film ; it was even riskier to show him freaking out in his apartment . that scene turns a killer's demented rampage into absurdist comedy , making you wonder what the hell lee was thinking . at times it gels into a gripping film . at other times , you can see lee working . . . and you can see him working far too hard . see the screening room for details , or reply to this message with subject " subscribe " . 
0	the problem with bad films like 3 strikes -- a laughless comedy -- isn't just that they rob us of our entertainment dollars . featuring african-american men who are almost all criminals and women who are almost universally referred to and act like bitches and 'hos , the film paints such a stereotyped world that it's easy to lose our collective self-respect . a microcosm of what's wrong with such movies occurred in our theater . why , in a multiplex featuring 15 other movies , including some good family ones , the mother would expose her daughter to such an abhorrent picture is a mystery that's not worth solving . certainly , it was completely inappropriate for this young child to be in such an r-rated movie , but think about those teenagers who see it . and make no mistake about it , teens and young adults are the movie's intended demographics . people in this age bracket are less likely to ask the little girl's naive questions . inundated with such loathsome material , it is easy for the teens to accept this celluloid version as reality . this friend , it turns out , is packing more than pot . written and directed by d . j . even the successful african-americans in the film are not spared from ridicule . another embarrassing moment in a completely disgusting movie . it is rated r for pervasive language , strong sexual content , some drug use and a brief scene of violence . i'd hate to see kids of any age go to this movie . 
0	screenplay : kevin meyer and keith samples . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( adult themes , sexual situations , profanity ) running time : 95 minutes . a plot synopsis for a smile like yours reads like the most generic of bittersweet romantic comedies . sounds quite a bit like she's having a baby , doesn't it ? only it's more like she's _not_ having a baby , because a smile like yours is a bittersweet romantic comedy about infertility . that's right , all the wacky hijinks of masturbating into a cup ! all the side-splitting humor of spending an hour in stirrups ! i can understand the temptation to search for humor in a subject as frustrating , embarrassing and occasionally guilt-inducing as fertility problems . perhaps either writer/director keith samples or his co-writer kevin meyer had some personal experience in this area , and felt the need to share their quest for a smile amidst the tears . and it might have worked if they had bothered to include a single honest moment in a smile like yours . there is no attempt to understand how danny and jennifer really feel about their dilemma , no sense of any genuine pain . samples and meyer have merely grafted a few scenes at a fertility clinic onto a fluffy and absurdly predictable relationship comedy , forcing you to wonder why it couldn't just as easily have been about a couple struggling with financial problems , or an irritating relative , or the heartbreak of psoriasis . it's actually fairly impressive how generic and predictable a smile like yours turns out to be . the casting certainly doesn't help matters , offering the mundanely attractive kinnear and holly as our protagonists without once stepping inside their heads ( we never learn why jennifer is so underhanded about trying to get pregnant , considering danny seems perfectly comfortable with the idea ) . even the supporting cast -- jay thomas as the acerbic guy pal , joan cusack as the daffy gal pal -- appears to have been generated by a computer program . the film is so ennervated for so long that a late cameo by shirley maclaine provides virtually the entire energy quotient in three minutes of screen time . for an hour and a half a smile like yours trudges in the most obvious directions , reaching a grating climax in a scene where several agonizing seconds pass between the moment we _know_ jennifer is going to call danny's hotel room and find another woman there , and the moment the phone actually rings . infertility may be a delicate issue , but it's hardly sacrosanct . a competent film-making team might have made either an exaggerated black comedy or a more sensitive comedy-drama about the issue . it deserves much better than to become an afterthought in a story which has nothing creative or insightful to offer on any subject . you know you're in trouble when the biggest laugh in a film comes during a scene when a character is watching a rerun of " i love lucy " . . . and the laugh is actually _at_ the rerun of " i love lucy . " lucy is still funnier -- and more inventive -- after 40 years than a smile like yours is after 40 minutes . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	an old-fashioned coming-of-age story with a big heart ; " the cider house rules " is a slow-moving tale that builds on its characterizations and never waivers in the warmness of its story , no matter , even if somehow events turn sour . it is the kind of humanistic story hollywood can do very well , when it puts its mind to it , and in this production has done itself proud , making it the kind of film oscar is partial to . the one fly in the ointment , is its pro-choice emphasis , probably too controversial for hollywood to want to deal with , even if the director has gone out of his way to be evenhanded in presenting both sides of the issue in the film and so far no outcries from church groups against the film have materialized . the film took him 13 years in trying to get the project off the ground ; the result is a pleasingly sensitive narrative , avoiding anything too sugary . the only thing homer won't do , is abortions . the main theme of the film is that in your life it's most important " to be of use . " the rules that make the most sense , are the one's that are made by the party concerned , not by some outsider . the good doctor would be happy delivering babies and not doing abortions , if he thought that all the babies he delivered would be adopted . the only question he couldn't answer , probably because it is a question that can't be answered , is when homer says , " what if i were aborted ? that would mean i wouldn't have had a chance to live . " it reminded me of going to an animal shelter to adopt a dog and watching how they also make friendly gestures at their prospective owners . the point made , is that the children still want to go home to a family , despite this orphanage being such a kindly run place . the second part of the film involves the good-hearted , quiet and sincere homer , seeing life from a point of view away from the orphanage . swedish director lasse hallstr ? m ( my life as a dog/what's eating gilbert grape ? ) has made an articulate film , one that goes over territory such as abortion , incest , murder , and forging records , and asks the viewer to use their intelligence in seeing what is right or wrong . it is , at all times , a visually beautiful film . the children are heart-stoppers , and caine is simply brilliant in drawing them out . there is not one flawed scene in the story , in a story that has a few subplots that run parallel to its main motif . homer's insightful look at the world , is also the viewer's way of seeing things the way a child would , who hungers so much for honest affection and is striving to find his place in the world . the filmmaker has told a positive story , in a straight narrative style . the only failing in the film is that , maybe , the director walked too fine a line in regards to the subplot in the film , about the abortion issue , not making his motives absolutely clear , when it seems obvious where the film's heart lies , anyway . but , maybe the filmmaker wasn't clear enough in where the film's leanings were and answered it like a liberal republican engaged in a presidential primary might be forced to answer the question , in order not to scare the right- wing away from him . as for me , this is a beautiful and delicate film , that all but spells out its leanings for pro-choice being a practical answer to the controversial problem . yet some movie reviewers , including the esteemed roger ebert , the most widely read critic in america , find that the theme of the film is muddled . ebert is not sure what the point of the story is about , as it seems to arrive at no clear point of view , for his tastes . a response like that surprises me , because it is one thing to not like the film , but i can't see not liking it for that reason , since i found the direction the film was heading down to be very clear and i had no trouble with its showing how terrifying an ordeal an abortion could be , as it also showed how necessary it was not to leave an abortion in the the hands of someone with a coat-hanger , that it was a medical problem as much as it was an ethical problem and a decision that only the one with the pregnancy problem could decide whether it was the right or wrong thing to do . i couldn't see how the filmmaker could be clearer about what side of the fence the film was on . the story had a natural rhythm to it , and the relationship between caine and maguire wasn't contrived , but seemed to generate its own energy ; it seemed genuinely affecting . i felt very touched by the film and its ability to tell such a heartbreaking story in such a sensitive and intelligent manner , without it being an art house film . 
2	black angel is a film noir armed with the following : a brilliant script by roy chanslor that is taken from a cornell woolrich novel , an engaging performance turned in by dan duryea who is in a rare role as someone sympathetic , and it is directed flawlessly with craft-like skills by roy william neill . this was duryea's first starring role after playing heavies . the film asks the question : is he a hero or a villain ? but he swears he didn't do it . the low-budget film had a stunning simplicity to it that evoked all kinds of feelings for the players involved in this imaginative story and dramatic tragedy . the film also presented an excellent character study of the dan duryea character , making him into a complicated black angel figure . 
2	famous director costa-gavras has to date created a body of work with an underlying theme of tension and terror . from his academy award nominated direction of z to his more recent efforts including missing and music box , his films have a hard-edge that leaves moviegoers squirming uneasily in their seats . his most recent film , mad city , represents a change of pace . although the hostage situation might sound like his previous films , it isn't . partly a commentary on media excesses and partly a black comedy , the script skirts a fine line between the two , which could be considered its major weakness . had one or the other of them been more fully developed , it would have been a better movie . and in the latter case it would have been even more like broadcast news , the show it most closely resembles . the movie comes back again and again to the issue of crossed lines with the implication that the warring reporters cross it repeatedly in an attempt to improve their poll numbers . we flip back frequently to the men behind the scenes at the network who check poll numbers on everything from the newscasters' market share to sam's popularity . " you really shouldn't let a marketing slogan go your head , " retorts max . it is rated pg-13 for a few violent scenes , a couple of profanities and mature themes . the show would be fine for kids 10 and up although they probably need to be teenagers to be interested in the movie . i recommend the film to you and give it * * * . * * * * = a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = totally and painfully unbearable picture . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
0	film brings out a collection of philosophers to state its case ; such as , sartre , kierkegaard , nietzsche , and heidegger . this was a mistake . you are comparing apples with oranges , and the film suffers with its credibility from such an unjust comparison . in case ferrara forgot , vampires are not real but the holocaust was only too real . the film itself , does not feature much action , relying on a lot of chatter and non-communicative conversations to get its story across . she thanks them for coming , and then says , `i'd like to take a minute to share with you a little of what i've learned while studying for my doctorate . ' now that's what we were waiting for , since the film did not feel quite right up to that point . it felt better being more campy . despite the short-comings of the plot , lili taylor gives a credible performance . this thinking man's vampire movie , is a natural for the midnight cult audience , but will seem out of place in a prime time slot . christopher walken is a natural for this type of film , but has a part that might as well be nonexistent . we don't see him until the film is nearly over , and when we do see him , he doesn't do much , except drain the blood of the still-not-evolved vampire , kathy . one of the many problems with this low-budgeter , is that it couldn't tell its story without the philosophers . it needs their explanations to explain itself . the story , which could have been more interesting if developed properly , never has a chance to really express itself without being explained away in philosophical terms . all its weird subjects are brazenly brought up and we are teased with the weight of their meaning , and then we are stopped short from following through on what their implications are . for instance , the topic of free will , always a good philosophical one ; but , when kathy says it is now my will against theirs , we are not quite sure what she means by that . but what does that mean . unless this is a blatant call against pacifism , saying we have to get ready to kick ass whenever we are set-upon . the film's theme becomes , that existence itself is the search for relief from our habits , and existence is the only relief we can find from our habits that makes sense . so the question becomes , what should we do , if we can't kill what is dead . . . you and if you are faced with choosing you or them , jumping or being pushed , kathy still believes that you must satisfy your own needs first . or , you can do with as little as you possibly can , says the diet-conscious and wise vampire , peina . if you want to see a film that is more credible than this one , that handles the same subject , but injects more life and fear into its story , and less philosophy and guilt-ridden religious themes , check out larry fessenden's habit . 
1	so would you like a show where you can kick back your heels , not tax your overworked brain , have a lot of laughs , listen to well written dialog , and watch some good looking actors and actresses ? well , i have the movie for you--miami rhapsody . first , let's play guess the director . you have a movie set on the east coast and filled with jewish people and comedy . it starts with an elegant typeface and has cole porter jazz music playing loudly yet soothingly in the background . when it cuts to the actors , you have sarah jessica parker talking documentary style to the camera . finally , the dialog is fast paced , witty , and 80% of the references are about sex . so you guessed it ? woody allen , right ? it was written and directed by david frankel who does a wonderful homage to woody . it does not compare to woody's best , but it is rather like his comedies sans woody's usual hidden darker meanings . this is not very done explicitly--it is mainly handled with some funny dialog . the only lines i can remember are not suitable for printing , but you will laugh when you hear them . the only jokes that had no place in it and certainly did not work were a couple of tired , old anti-working women jokes that i have no idea why they put them in since the rest of the script was bright and intelligent . the rest of the show is just a lot of light hearted dialog . there is not much of a plot . there is no tension or drama , and there is certainly no hidden meanings or serious parts . this movie is like a meringue--not much there but sinfully fun to eat . the movie runs a breezy and perfectly short 1 : 35 . it is correctly rated pg-13 for a few bad words and an adult theme . there is no nudity , violence , or drugs . it would be fine for anyone over 12 . i recommend it to you as a fun diversion and give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are solely mine & not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	what i know about classical music , i could explain to you in ten minutes . i had never heard of glenn gould before i heard of this film . it is possible that with greater background knowledge , i might have appreciated thirty-two films about glenn gould more . . . although i can't imagine how . glenn gould is a thoroughly remarkable film experience , as confident as it is ambitious , as masterfully realized as it is skillfully constructed . it is difficult for me to conceive of a biography which more vividly conveys its subject , in all his complexity , and it is easy for me to state that it is the best film i have seen in 1994 . thirty-two short films about glenn gould is exactly what its title would suggest : a series of vignettes examining in various ways the life and music of glenn gould , the acclaimed and enigmatic canadian classical pianist who died in 1982 at the age of 50 . there are also abstract interpretations of gould's work as a performer and as a composer . while each of the thirty-two individually titled segments in glenn gould is self-contained , it is the manner in which they are connected which makes the film so compelling . despite the changes in perspective and varying film techniques , glenn gould never seems fragmented ; it maintains an unmistakable flow which is rarely anything but gripping . it helps that francois girard has chosen such a fascinating subject , but it is girard's brilliant direction which makes gould , the movie and the man , come alive . and while the dramatized sequences tend to present a man of almost other-worldly talent and insight , the inclusion of the interviews with real acquaintances of gould's gives him a fundamental humanity . there is the occasional misstep . a few of the sequences seem repetitive , particularly " practice " and " passion according to gould , " both of which show gould's rapture in response to his own music ; and " the tip , " while amusing , seems somewhat out of place . i was also less than enthralled by the lengthy animated segment " gould meets mclaren , " and " variation in c minor , " another fantasia-like visual representation of music . thirty-two short films about glenn gould introduced me to a fragile , uniquely humanistic genius i wanted to know more about , and in a way i doubt i'll ever forget . 
0	at best , this tv film of sherlock , is moderate fare . it suffers from wooden acting , flat direction , and trite dialogue . it was as if huston was reading his lines from cue cards , which made his confrontations with sherlock unduly dry . what the film did have going for it , was a clever plot and a few gimmicks it hung its hat on , which made it passably interesting for awhile , at least enough for me to continue watching so i could see how sherlock resolves the complicated case he is working on . this is usual sherlock stuff , except the film never had an excitement or sense of urgency to it . any romance , seemed out of the question , as the two stars seemed like cold kippers , afraid to even touch each other . in the end , everything seemed technically correct about the production , but it never had any life to it . i would chalk this sherlock version up as a mistake and , if i were in the mood to see a sherlock , i would stick to seeing any of the basil rathbone ones of the 1940s , especially his " sherlock holmes and the spider woman . " 
1	lying in his underwear on the roof of his house while the rain pours down is typical of the episodes in first-time writer and director tod williams's the adventures of sebastian cole . " sorry , i thought you were someone else , " she apologizes before vanishing into the dark . once he guzzles one and a half fifths of whiskey in order to see how it feels to be seriously drunk . this sensitivity , he fears , will dull sebastian's creative writing edge . " i don't understand how such a vain boy could spend so much time making himself unattractive , " she complains about his slightly streaked hair . actually , the quiet and pensive sebastian is anything but vain . he doesn't seem to care much about anything , least of all his appearance , even if he is strikingly handsome . his life is a blur , much like the movie . the small film is filled with tiny , frequently unrelated incidents that never amount to anything . the filmmaker shows no talent at storytelling , leaving the movie to live or die on the basis of the characters it creates . it is rated r for language , crude sexual references and some substance abuse and would be acceptable for teenagers . 
1	this premise would seem improbable , but in the recent news of the geriatric john glenn going on a space mission for experimental purposes , it shows that their mission is possible , though not in the manner as depicted in this fantasy film . there are a lot of good natured jokes about aging and some friendly ribbing between the young astronauts and the veterans , and it all seems pleasantly entertaining , though somewhat staged . clint even makes fun of some of his older pictures , which i presume is why he has so much fun with the monkey in the opening scene . everything seemed smooth and compliable with a formula movie , and it seemed as if the actors were having a good time acting together . but through the wonderful special effects and the full cooperation of nasa as consultants , there was a sense of awe in seeing the sights of space travel . and , when clint is able to make an impossible landing , something hollywood films are good at doing , there is a sense of relief that the old timer , who now has a lined and craggy face and looks like an american icon , is safe and sound . since the film didn't take itself so seriously , there was no undue tension and everything was fun , even all the contrivances the film allowed for . this is not one of clint's top films , but if it is his swan song , as rumored , there are a lot of reasons why this is not a bad film to end one's career on . the love and affection from his fellow actors comes through loud and clear , in this well-crafted production , which shows clint could direct with the skills that only the most competent hollywood directors possessed , even if clint never reached greatness himself , as he was unable to overcome his artistic limitations . what he couldn't do in this film , was move beyond the easy humor and special effects , and make a film that had something involving to say about old age and those facing death . 
1	if you are like me and have never heard of this painter , you will not only learn about her life , you will also get to see some of her marvelous paintings at the end of the movie during the credits . to me her paintings are like a cross between a renoir and an edward hopper , and i would love to see an exhibition of her work some day . similarly , if you have never read any of the writings of lytton strachey , this is no problem either since the artistic talents of the two protagonists of carrington are of minor importance . the film is about undying love while at the same time attempting to lay waste to the notion of monogamy . a fascinating contrast . unlike the typical love triangle , the relationships in this film form a pointed star of uncountable number of points . although the movie goes on for over twenty years , the make-up by chrissie beveridge was poorly done and the actors and actresses never age . i liked this movie for the dreamy atmosphere it provided . they play a schubert string quintet at one point , and its slow and smooth intonations are an apt metaphor to the happiness that carrington radiates . she keeps remarking how being with lytton makes her so incredibly happy . the sparse dialog by christopher hampton is quite witty . first time director christopher hampton gives the audience a show that drifts along with the easy of a slow stream in summer . even as the love relationships get more complex , the show stays with its simple veneer . unsuccessful attempts at shattering the calm are statements by lytton proclaiming that " there are times when i feel like a character in a farce . " the cinematography by denis lenoir has many scenes of inner peace crafted by filming the english countryside in sunset hues and the inside in the warmth of small rooms with equally small fireplaces casting golden shadows . the characters spend significant amounts of time staring happily at each other . the music by michael nyman fits the mood created by the director perfectly . although the show appears devoid of any morals other than live for the moment , it provides a peaceful diversion . the acting is excellent . emma thompson is always great , and this movie was not exception . she takes a simple and direct approach to the character , and it works . lytton is a bit of conundrum , and pryce exploits this to the fullest . you never quite understand what lytton is thinking , and yet he is such an intriguing and quirky character that you can see why carrington is attracted to him even if he claims to detest the sight of women's bodies . carrington runs too long at 2 : 02 . the movie is rated r for bad language , some sex , brief nudity , and a total lack of morals . only mature teenagers should go and then i would advise discussing it with them thoroughly afterwards . for me , the dreamy mood of the picture and the excellent acting won me over , and i was able to ignore the morals issue . i do recommend carrington to the adventuresome moviegoer , and i give it * * 1/2 . * * * * = one of the top few films of this or any year . a must see film . * * * = excellent show . look for it . * * = average movie . kind of enjoyable . * = poor show . don't waste your money . 0 = one of the worst films of this or any year . totally unbearable . opinions expressed are mine and not meant to reflect my employer's . 
2	producers : marshall herkovitz , edward zwick , arnon milchan , sarah caplan . director : marshall herskovitz . mpaa rating : r ( nudity , sexual situations , adult themes , profanity ) running time : 115 minutes . for quite a while , dangerous beauty tempts you with an irresistable combination of compelling substance in a glorious package . . . quite fitting , considering the premise . yes , even the now-married marco . if you smell a tale of degradation and class warfare in the making , sniff again . dangerous beauty actually paints quite a rosy portrait of veronica's life while presenting an intriguing history lesson in gender politics . when the other option is mute insignificance , prostitution suddenly seems considerably less cruel a fate . director marshall herskovitz wraps this tale in enough style , romance and humor that it's usually as entertaining as it is provocative . sumptuous production design renders 16th century venice in romanticized colors and dark interiors , accentuated by lucianna arrighi's marvelous costumes . the central pairing of sewell and mccormack generates heat and tension as the two characters negotiate the tricky parameters of their relationship . then again , mccormack never hits a single false note in her performance , her expressive face registering emotions ranging from innocence to astonishment to wicked wit . for well over three quarters of its running time , dangerous beauty is an unqualified pleasure . you can feel free to leave the theater when the plague strikes fair venice , because at that point it quickly degenerates into thematic proclamations and over-wrought courtroom confrontations . after offering well over an hour of subversive notions cloaked in costume drama , jeannine dominy's script plants veronica on a soapbox for the deliver of an i-am-renaissance-woman-hear-me-roar manifesto , inspiring all and sundry to leap to their feet in an " oh captain , my captain " show of solidarity . don't let those cheap theatrics wash the good taste of the rest of dangerous beauty out of your mouth . mccormack's radiant performance and an unusual exploration of primitive feminism give it the real punch its forced conclusion tries too hard to provide . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
2	starring : roma alexandrovitch , sacha iakovlev , vladimir machkov , maria lipkina director : yolande zauberman producers : rene cleitman and jean-luc ormieres screenplay : yolande zauberman cinematography : jean-marc fabre music : ghedalia tazartes released by new yorker films in yiddish , polish , russian , and gypsy dialect with subtitles the power of ivan and abraham lies as much in what doesn't reach the screen as what does . none of the nazi brutality so evident in another black-and-white holocaust picture , schindler's list , is shown here , since ivan and abraham ends before poland is occupied . those of us sitting in the audience know historically what is to come , and this recognition adds a further level of poignancy to the proceedings . though that is not ivan and abraham's story to tell , the sense of impending doom pervades everything . zauberman is as cognizant of the future as are those watching her film . at times , were it not for the stark black-and-white photography , it might almost be possible to imagine that abraham and ivan are involved in a simple road movie--meeting people and going places as they stay one step ahead of those who would end their adventure . these moments do not last for long , however , with the ugly specter of racism always ready to rear its head . to show that intolerance is not just a characteristic of the catholics , zauberman has introduced the subplot detailing rachel's attachment to aaron . the narrative of ivan and abraham is choppy , occasionally to the point of being difficult to decipher . for a beautifully photographed film , the editing is surprisingly crude . too often , it's easy to place a missing scene . technical and flow problems aside , ivan and abraham is still a moving film , and a worthy " prequel " of sorts to the more sobering and gut-wrenching schindler's list . this is just another face of a horror so enormous that no number of motion pictures will ever begin to grasp its scope . 
0	date released : 9/17/93 running length : 1 : 46 rated : r ( violence , language , mature themes , sexual situations ) a guy with a name like rowdy herrington had better make a more impressive film than this if he doesn't want his name to get confused with that of a professional wrestler . disappointment abounds for anyone expecting die hard on water . the only similarity is actor bruce willis , but this film is sadly lacking both the slick direction of the die hard movies and the entertaining script . for striking distance , we get a routine cop story , complete with far too many chases , moments that stretch the viewer's credulity past the breaking point , and few legitimate surprises . the action is depressingly routine , and bruce willis has only one or two opportunities for wise-cracking , which is clearly one of his fortes . actually , for the first half of the movie , the plot doesn't seem all that bad . it's full of cliches , but that's to be expected , and it contains far too many stock situations , but that shouldn't surprise anyone either . however , any shred of competence shown by the early script unravels as the movie zips along to its ridiculous conclusion . the revelation of the killer is an absolute joke ( and i don't mean a funny one ) . i didn't figure out the identity early , but i would have had i not given the writing more credit than it deserves . you see , i was hoping things might turn out to make ( gasp ! ) sense . perhaps someone could tell me why sarah jessica parker , who really isn't a bad actress , would take this thankless role ( the standard answer to this question is " money " ) . not only is jo totally uninteresting , but she's stupid . it's sad to see anyone in a part this poor , but even more distressing when the performer isn't some no-name actress in her first major motion picture . did ms . parker actually think striking distance would advance her career ? bruce willis , who has shown moments of undeniable ability ( in country , while not a great film , was a tour de force for the actor ) , manages to be little better than annoying in striking distance . some of it surely has to do with his character : a morose , self-centered man with a drinking problem . there are a couple of solid scenes where willis stays within himself , but those are few and far between . now , as for the relationship between jo and tom , i didn't buy it for a moment . not only does it start far too quickly , and with too flimsy of a premise given the circumstances , but it generates neither heat nor romantic tension . it's not that the two don't have chemistry--given an opportunity , they might have--but the movie doesn't allow anything to develop . a couple of bed scenes is about the extent of things as far as we're concerned . the opening car chase is enjoyable , even if parts of it are close to self-parody ( i was reminded of last action hero ) . after that , however , everything settles into the usual action film routine . there are about two more chases than necessary--on land and in water . my philosophy about chases is that they should be avoided unless the director has something new to show off . needless to say , striking distance breaks that rule . no one could accuse herrington of anything close to originality . he goes strictly by-the-book , churning out a picture that is pure formula , with a generous does of idiocy thrown in . there are a lot of other bad things i could talk about--the overblown score , the silly portrayal of the police , the bad dialogue , the poor lighting in almost every scene--but i think it's pretty clear how few are the virtues of striking distance . in fact , one of the positive points is that the movie is too loud and noisy to fall asleep during , which is surely what most people would do if their attention was based on story and character . 
0	filmed and directed by dan geller and dayna goldfine . none so chose . unfortunately , it's not particularly successful . frosh captures moments , but due to its overly large canvas it doesn't capture enough growth . cheng , a first generation chinese-american , quips about stanford's liberal bias while coping with academic difficulties . i should preface my comments by stating that i spent three years , in various capacities , living in freshman dorms at stanford . i wasn't expecting to see anything i'd never seen before ; what i was expecting was a film that highlighted real growing experiences , and allowed viewers to watch the first tentative steps of kids into adulthood . a few such moments in frosh work extremely well , particularly shayne's emotional discussion with a few friends about why she's considering leaving the catholic church . but there aren't enough of these moments . frosh seems more interested in being a kind of rapidly edited video yearbook , and like most yearbooks it's only going to be really significant to those who lived the moments . part of the problem with frosh is that even the nine-student focus is too large . frosh will uncover an issue in one of their lives , but doesn't take the time to show us the resolution . we never learn , for example , if at the end of the year shayne is still a church-going catholic ; we never learn how cheng recovers from his disappointing first-quarter grades . when it's all said and done , frosh comes off as an interesting anthropological footnote , but not a particularly deep or insightful look at why the freshman year at a residential university is so significant . my primary bone of contention is that in its attempt to keep its brow relatively high , frosh almost completely ignores two of the most challenging issues of the freshman year : romantic relationships and substance use . there is one look at a blind date , but little more . perhaps out of fear of scaring off their subjects , geller and goldfine have excised most material parents wouldn't want to know . in one scene , a professor tells debbie as she attempts to describe a term paper topic , " you're babbling " ; in another , one dormmate asks shayne , " if there was no , like , racism or sexism , what would you talk about ? " where it comes up short is as an examination of how much an individual can change in these nine pivotal months . trust me . . . i was there . 
1	director : roland emmerich . mpaa rating : pg-13 ( intense situations , profanity , some violence ) running time : 135 minutes . roland emmerich and dean devlin have thrown down the gauntlet to film critics . . . or , at the very least , to two film critics in particular . i don't know why emmerich and devlin found this snarky fit of retaliatory pique necessary . is critical acceptance so important to the film-makers that doing well isn't good enough as the best revenge ? if such is the case , here's a simple bit of advice for emmerich and devlin : make better movies . godzilla is a baby step in the right direction , if for no other reason than that it's more honest in its big-budget intentions than the dopey and grandiose independence day . using aliens and jurassic park as its models rather than the adventures of its rubber-suited predecessor , godzilla takes only half an hour before the scaly behemoth hits the big apple and turns midtown manhattan into a jurassic parking lot . the sheer variety of situations insures a consistent level of interest , while simultaneously insuring several unique levels for the inevitable sony playstation version of the game . whenever the film rests on human shoulders , however , you could sprain your eyeballs from rolling them . continuing their uncanny knack for inane back-story , emmerich and devlin create a mayo-on-white-bread relationship dynamic between broderick and pitillo , and a mission for reno which makes less and less sense every moment i think about it . the dialogue is hopelessly feeble , the attempts at humor strained even by action movie standards , and the characters so caricatured that al hirschfeld should have drawn them . even the always-appealing broderick looks baffled by how to be charming in such a suffocating role . it's a sharp piece of action film-making , and not the only one . yet godzilla can't get by on its big-ness alone ; in fact , the visuals sometimes seem decidedly less than state-of-the-art , particularly when our heroes are threatened inside madison square garden . when a blockbuster exists solely to impress you with " you gotta see this " tricks , it's tough not to be disappointed when you've seen the tricks before , and seen them done better . there are ways around that disappointment , though , which emmerich and devlin should ponder : write better scripts . create real characters . make better movies . either that , or continue blaming the messengers for the way they hold their thumbs . see the moviepage for details , or reply to this message with subject line " subscribe " . 
0	it worked reasonably well for part of the film , as dead bodies came popping up unexpectedly in this sleepy montana town , but then the story ran out of tricks and everything about the film fell apart and the psychopathic woman hating slasher , lester long ( vaughn ) , became a tiresome charge , his maniacal charm just wore out his welcome on screen , and the film's conclusion lacked tension or purpose and seemed to be a wasted effort , as it just simply ran out of gas after about an hour into it . what garofalo brought to the film at this point , was some welcomed comic relief , much needed because this film was exhausted from all the contrivances and lack of adequate character study it provided . it was only through garofolo's sense of black comedy , that the film was still bearable ; and , at that , it was only barely bearable . clay is somewhat of an innocent , at least , as far as the murders go , but he certainly can't be commended for being a truthful person . everything gets resolved in the film's anticlimax , that mercifully ends in an arrest , though some 30 minutes too late , as far as i'm concerned . what might be likable about this film , to viewers not that discerning about plot or character study , is that this film was user friendly and brought about a hearty guffaw or two . none of the actors was bad , bad , but none were memorable . it's one of those films that is easily forgotten . 
2	if you don't break off a kiss by the count of 6 , then you committed a sin with the boy . the richly acted film is written and directed by thom fitzgerald in a quirky but loving style . although some may refer to the film as yet another dysfunctional family picture , that moniker misses the mark . this delightful little picture mixes love , tragedy and pathos , resulting in a hopeful and almost magical concoction . kerry fox from an angel at my table and shallow grave plays rosemary with a compelling joy . nicole burnell , who gave such a devastating performance in the sweet hereafter , plays the teenage rosemary . the director manages to stage simple scenes in wonderfully imaginative ways . as much as anything , the film is a series of character sketches . with absolute finesse the director crafts a subtle scene that manages to yield significant emotional punch without being sensational . all of this notwithstanding , he still prefers males . the film is at its most poignant in several sequences in which the grown william comes face-to-face with himself when younger . even here , the director touches your heart without ever letting the story dissolve into anything approaching a tearjerker . the ultimate result is an uplifting story that has more hope that one would ever expect from the outline of its plot . it is rated r for strong sexuality , language , violence and some teen drug use and would be acceptable for teenagers only if they are quite old and mature . 
1	for ms . deepa mehta -- fire is the first film of her trilogy on the elements , this her second , and water , to be filmed later , will be her third . they believe they can be invisible , spreading sweetness to the land like sugar placed in the middle of a glass of milk . the problem with the film is twofold ; one , is that all these tragic events are translated through the childish eyes of lenny , who cannot grasp everything that is happening , she just doesn't have the maturity to do that . because of that , the story has too much of a childish flavor to it and is simplified to a point that touches on being too fine . it was an unneeded artifice , that tended to spoil the flow of the film's dramatics . the other problem , with this otherwise splendid history lesson and tragic love story , is that all the movie's metaphors are used as if they were merely to amplify the historical tale . the character's lives were reduced in scope and they seemed to be milked for the benefit of making the story fit into the historical text . it is stunningly photographed , using reds and purples to express the blood-curdling scenes of lahore under siege and a glowing yellow for the warm household scenes and a brownish amber to catch the vast beauty of the countryside . it is noteworthy for exploring in detail the destruction of innocence and the arbitrary splitting up of the earth , and how everyone gets caught up in the emotional frenzy of hatred and how difficult it is to just do what is right . there was a certain power the film had , that could not be denied . nandita das as shanta , is the heart of the picture . her performance was very moving and gave life to this epic film . his masterful performance , changing from an endearing and helpful figure , to one who embraces violence , was what put a human face of evil on this melodrama and saved the film from being thought of as mostly a metaphorical historical exercise . 
0	a mindless film noir set in arizona . the film it resembles most is " bad lieutenant " ( 1992 ) . in imitation of pulp fiction , there's lots of frivolous talk . it's a film liotta saw a 100 times . harry is a good guy with an honorable code of ethics and would be fine , if his gambling habit didn't make him so twisted . the film has nothing to say that makes sense , the acting was forgettable , the dialogue was trite , and all the characters seemed to be out to lunch . it's a film that will not rise from it's ashes . 
